 undergraduate second baccalaureates @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  Degrees  


     
 Undergraduate Second Baccalaureates 

 
 


 Second Baccalaureate Overview 
 
 
›  General Information    
  ›  Computer Science Second Baccalaureate    
  ›  Informatics Second Baccalaureate     
  
›  Computer Science and Engineering Second Baccalaureate   
  
›  Software Engineering Second Baccalaureate   
 
 
  ›  Tips for Second Baccalaureate Applicants    
  ›  Special Programs and Learning Opportunities   
 
    
 General Information 
 Students requesting admission into the Information &amp; Computer Science second baccalaureate degree must satisfy all requirements   prior </strong> to applying. Applications for a second baccalaureate will not be considered until all required coursework is completed. 
  Students whose first degree was from another institution other than UC Irvine:</strong> 
 Applications will be accepted for the fall only. To ensure admission consideration for the fall or winter quarter, students should be sure to file their application by the UC deadline as indicated at www.admissions.uci.edu. Applications must be submitted to the Office of Admissions and Relations with Schools during the filing period. For more information on application procedures, please contact them at (949) 824-6703 or via the web at  www.admissions.uci.edu . 
  Students whose first degree was completed at UC Irvine:</strong> 
 Applications will be accepted for any quarter. Former UC Irvine students must meet with an academic counselor to discuss admission for the second baccalaureate. Former UCI students will be admitted via the campus’ readmission policy and must submit a completed UCI Readmission Form to the ICS Student Affairs Office in order to be considered for admission. All interested individuals must adhere to the readmission deadlines that are set by the Registrar’s Office. Admission for former UCI students will be processed throughout the academic year. 
 ↑ Back to top  
    
 CS Second Baccalaureate 
  The following minimum requirements must be complete prior to applying for a CS Second Baccalaureate:</strong> 
  A GPA of at least 2.5 in first bachelor's degree from a four year institution. 
 Choose 2 courses from the following: ICS 31, ICS 32, ICS 33, ICS 45C, ICS 46, ICS 51, INF 43, or equivalents. 
 Choose an additional 2 courses from: Math 2A, Math 2B, ICS 6B, ICS 6D, ICS 6N, Stats 67, or equivalents 
 A combined GPA of at least 2.5 in all courses taken and no grade lower than a "C" on each course. 
  ICS 6B-D-N: This is a yearlong sequence in discrete mathematics. It is a sequence designed for computer science majors and covers combinatorics and graph theory, logic and boolean algebra, and linear algebra. 
 Math 2A-B and Stats 67: This is a year of calculus and computer science statistics. A standard, yearlong sequence in calculus at another institution is normally considered equivalent to Math 2A-B. Stats 67 must be completed at UCI through ACCESS UCI via University Extension as there is currently no equivalent available at a community college. 
 ICS 31, 32, 32, 45C, 46 and 51: This is the UCI introductory sequence in computer science. It covers history, computer system fundamentals, productivity tools, an introduction to programming and problem solving, literacy topics in computer science, data structures and algorithms, and an introduction to system architecture. 
 Informatics 43: Concepts, methods, and current practice of software 
engineering. Large-scale software production, software life cycle 
models, principles and techniques for each stage of development. 
Laboratory project applying these concepts. 
   
 ↑ Back to top  
      
 Informatics Second Baccalaureate 
  The following minimum requirements must be complete prior to applying for a Informatics Second Baccalaureate:</strong> 
  A GPA of at least 2.5 for the first bachelor’s degree. 
 Completion of 2 courses from ICS 31, 32, 33, 45J, INF 43; completion of 2 additional courses from the list of ICS 6B, Stats 7 or Stats 67. 
 Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement. 
 A combined GPA of 2.5 in all courses that will be used to satisfy Informatics degree requirements, with no grade lower than a "C" in any of those courses. 
 Informatics 43: Concepts, methods, and current practice of software engineering. Large-scale software production, software life cycle models, principles and techniques for each stage of development. Laboratory project applying these concepts.
 ICS 6B: Relations and their properties; Boolean algebras, formal languages; finite automata. 
 ↑ Back to top  
      
 Computer Science and Engineering Second Baccalaureate 
  The following minimum requirements must be complete prior to applying for a CSE Second Baccalaureate:</strong> 
  A GPA of at least 2.5 for the first bachelor’s degree. 
 Completion of CSE 41 and 42 or its equivalents. 
 Completion of Math 2A-B-D or its equivalents. 
 Completion of Physics 7C and 7D with labs or its equivalents. 
 A combind GPA of at least 2.5 in all courses taken and no grade lower than a "C"; on all courses applicable towards the major (including those listed above) 
  Math 2A-B: This is a year of calculus and Computer Science Statistics. A standard, yearlong sequence in calculus at another institution is normally considered equivalent to Math 2A-B. 
 Physics 7C-D and 7LC-LD: This is a two quarter sequence in classical physics. It is a sequence designed for engineering majors and covers force, energy, momentum, roation, and gravity, and electricity and magnetism. 
 CSE 41 and 42: This is the UCI introductory sequence in computer science and engineering. It covers history, computer system fundamentals, productivity tools, an introduction to programming and problem solving, and literacy topics in computer science. 
 ↑ Back to top  
    
  Second Baccalaureate in Software Engineering</strong> 
  The following minimum requirements must be complete prior to applying for a SE Second Baccalaureate:</strong> 
  A GPA of at least 2.5 for the first bachelor’s degree. 
 Completion of 2 courses from ICS 31, 32, 33, 45J, INF 43; completion
 of 2 additional courses from the list of ICS 6B, Stats 7 or Stats 67. 
 Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement. 
 A combined GPA of 2.5 in all courses that will be used to satisfy 
Informatics degree requirements, with no grade lower than a "C" in any 
of those courses. 
 Informatics 43: Concepts, methods, and current practice of software
 engineering. Large-scale software production, software life cycle 
models, principles and techniques for each stage of development. 
Laboratory project applying these concepts.
ICS 6B: Relations and their properties; Boolean algebras, formal languages; finite automata.
    
 Tips for Second Baccalaureate Applicants 
 Applications cannot be acted upon until all required coursework is completed and relevant transcripts are received. 
 Course descriptions can be found in the  UCI catalogue. 
 
 Required coursework may be completed at UCI or with equivalent courses taken at an accredited institution. Courses taken at a four-year or two-year institution can be examined by UC Irvine faculty through a petition process to determine equivalency. In order to determine equivalency, a course syllabus/outline, a course description and a textbook (if necessary) must be submitted to the ICS Student Affairs Office.  
 Courses may be taken at UCI through ACCESS UCI via University Extension. You can get more information by contacting them at (949) 824-5414 or via the web at  www.unex.uci.edu .  
 Courses taken at universities other than local community colleges should be evaluated for equivalency before submitting your application; this way you know you have completed all relevant coursework. Articulation agreements between California community colleges and the Bren School of ICS can be found at  www.assist.org . 
 Grade point averages as stated in the policy are required. If you complete several math and computer science courses and find you are not earning high enough grades, you may need to reconsider your decision to apply for a second baccalaureate degree in ICS. You may decide not to finish the required course work if you will not be able to get into ICS. The academic counselors in ICS are available to discuss your chances of being admitted to the program and to help you to identify other options. 
 ↑ Back to top  
    
 Special Programs and Learning Opportunities 
 
			  There are several ways to add depth, scope, and experiential 
learning to your academic program of study. An academic counselor will 
help you determine the most efficient way to add another major, minor, 
or concentration to your academic plan, and will refer you to other 
campus programs and resources that support your interests and future 
goals.
			   
    »</strong>  CONCENTRATIONS:</strong> 
    Engineering and Computer Science in the Global Context</strong>   
All Bren School majors in good standing may propose an academic plan 
that demonstrates the ability to complete the concentration and other 
requirements for graduation in a reasonable timeframe. 
 
The globalization of the marketplace for information technology services
 and products makes it likely that Bren ICS graduates will work in 
multicultural settings or be employed by companies with extensive 
international operations, or customer bases.  The goal of the 
concentration is to help students develop and integrate knowledge of the
 history, language and culture of a country or geographic region outside
 the United States, through coursework both at UCI and an international 
host campus, followed by a technology related internship in the host 
country.
 
 Application:</strong> 
Each student's proposed program of study, specifying coursework and a 
guided internship experience in a region outside the U.S., must be 
approved in advance by the Bren School of ICS Associate Dean for Student
 Affairs.  It is expected that each student's proposal will reflect a 
high degree of planning that includes the guidance of academic 
counselors and those at the UCI Center for International Education 
regarding course selection, as well as considerations related to 
internship opportunities, housing and financial aid.  The academic 
counselors and the Associate Dean will be available to assist qualified 
students with the development of a satisfactory academic plan, as 
needed.   Requirements:</strong>    A
 minimum of eight courses at UCI or at the international campus with an 
emphasis on the culture, language (if applicable and necessary), 
history, literature of the country that corresponds to the international
 portion of the program, international law, international labor policy, 
global issues, global institutions, global conflict and negotiation and 
global economics;   
  A
 one or two semester sequence of technical courses related to the major 
and, possibly, cultural, history, and literature courses taken at an 
international university;  
  A two month or longer technical internship experience in the same country as the international educational experience.  
  
    »</strong>  MINORS</strong>
 
Students inside and outside of the Bren School of ICS may want to pursue
 a minor, a coordinated set of courses which together take a student 
well beyond the introductory level in an academic field, subject, and/or
 discipline.  Note:  Some minor requirements may be fulfilled by the 
student’s major requirements.  Some major/minor combinations are not 
allowed.
 
   Biomedical Computing (10 courses)  
  Informatics (8 courses)  
  Information and Computer Science (7 courses)  
  Statistics (7 courses)  
     »</strong>  OPPORTUNITIES FOR HONORS-LEVEL STUDY</strong> 
Students who are majoring in Biomedical Computing, Business Information 
Management, Computer Science, Computer Science and Engineering, and 
Information and Computer Science, and ICS Undeclared Pre-Majors are 
invited to apply for admission to the Bren School of ICS's introductory 
honors sequence (ICS H21/H22/H23).  These courses provide a uniquely 
challenging and intimate learning environment in which conventional 
course material is explored in greater depth.
   
   A student must meet at least one of the following criteria to be eligible to enroll in ICS H21: 
 
  Minimum 620 on each of 2 of 3 sections of the SAT; or 
 Member of the UCI Campuswide Honors Program; or 
 Verification of score of 3 or higher on AP Computer Science A exam; or 
  
Eligible students will be provided an authorization code (required) for 
course enrollment at the time of their summer orientation/registration 
session.
    »</strong>  BREN SCHOOL OF ICS HONORS PROGRAM </strong>   
              Allows juniors and seniors majoring in Computer Science, 
Computer Science and Engineering, Informatics, or Information and 
Computer Science to pursue advanced work in one of many research areas. 
 Students admitted to the program participate in an honors seminar, 
conduct independent research under the guidance of a faculty member, and
 write a research paper.  
 More information about eligibility criteria and benefits of successful completion of the honors program is available at the  Honors program web site .  
    »</strong>  INDEPENDENT RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES</strong>   
              The School encourages all majors to take advantage of this
 valuable experience, and faculty advertise many research opportunities 
every year.  
 Students are also encouraged to participate in the campus  Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP) ,
 which offers guidance and grant funding for student-proposed 
independent research, and sponsors programs which provide summer 
stipends for students working on faculty-guided research. 
    »</strong>  CAMPUSWIDE HONORS PROGRAM</strong>   
              Available to selected high-achieving students from all 
academic majors from their freshman through senior years. For more 
information see the  CHP web site .  
    »</strong>  EDUCATION ABROAD PROGRAM</strong>  
              Upper-division students have the opportunity to experience
 different cultures while making progress toward degree objectives 
through the  Education Abroad Program (EAP) .  
 EAP is an overseas study program which operates in cooperation with host universities and colleges throughout the world.  
    »</strong>  OTHER PROGRAMS OF INTEREST</strong> 
   UCI SAGE (Student Achievement Guided by Experience) Scholars Program  
  UCI California Teach Initiative   
  UCI Washington Academic Internship Program   
  UC/DC Internship Program  
  UCI Administrative Intern Program  
  ↑ Back to top  
  
 Still not sure?  
 Prospective and current students interested in learning more about 
the Bren ICS degree options are encouraged to meet with the Associate 
Dean, counselors and student ambassadors in the Bren ICS Student Affairs
 Office.   
 They will help you determine which of our majors and minors best support your academic strengths and interests. 
  CONTACT:</strong> 
                Bren ICS Student Affairs Office 
                Information and Computer Science Building I, Suite 352 
                Irvine, CA 92697-3430 
                Phone: (949) 824-5156 
              Email:  ucounsel@uci.edu  
↑ Back to top 


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 