 Program Overview |  
     
             
         Skip to Main Content 
       
             
                     
             Program Overview  
  Apply  
  Forms  
  Resources  
  Student Testimonials  
  Contact Us  
  
             
         
           
           
               
           
                                ICS Honors Program  
                   
         
                             
         
                   
       
         
                 
                                                   
              
                                     
                             Program Overview 
                                           
         
       
  
  
  
       
          
            

 
  
      What is the ICS Honors Program?  
  
   
       
  
    
   
     
     
 The ICS Honors Program (ICSHP) provides an opportunity for students in any of the Bren School's majors to carry out a research project under the direction of a Bren School faculty member. 
    
  
  
   
           
                   
            

 
  
      Step 1: Course Requirements  
  
   
       
  
    
   
      
 Students joining the program participate in the Bren School Honors Seminar (ICS H197), which provides an introduction to research areas in the school. ICS H197 is graded Pass/Not Pass, and the principal formal requirement is that you attend and participate. Students who are in the ICSHP are required to enroll in ICS H197 in the fall of their first year in the ICSHP.    
  
     
      
      
     
          Read more   
  
      
      
   
  
   
           
                 
            

 
  
      Step 2: Honors Seminar (ICS H197)  
  
   
       
  
    
   
         
 ICS H197 provides an opportunity for the Bren School's undergraduate honors students to learn about the research taking place in the school and to begin to get involved with this research. The main purpose of this course is to help you learn what sort of research is being conducted, which people do what, and how to get connected with a research project. 
 Several types of meetings are planned for this seminar, including the following:    
  
     
      
      
     
          Read more   
  
      
      
   
  
   
           
                   
            

 
  
      Step 3: Finding a Faculty Advisor and Taking CS H198  
  
   
       
  
    
   
         
 To complete the honors program, you must take two quarters of independent, supervised work (CS H198 or In4matx H198) with your faculty advisor. (In some cases, your advisor might ask you to take a graduate course to substitute for the first quarter.)    
  
     
      
      
     
          Read more   
  
      
      
   
  
   
           
                 
            

 
  
      Step 4: Start Your Research  
  
   
       
  
    
   
         
 Once you find a faculty advisor, develop a plan for how you will begin to tackle the research. Then fill out the "Initial Plan" form (see  Forms Page ). In some cases, your plan might be a program of study at first, rather than a description of your specific project. In any case, a brief description of your plans and goals should be included.    
  
     
      
      
     
          Read more   
  
      
      
   
  
   
           
                   
            

 
  
      Step 5: Completing the Program  
  
   
       
  
    
   
         
 The results of your honors work as an ICSHP participant must be certified by your faculty advisor and by the program advisor to be of honors quality. 
 NOTE: Students in the Campus Honors Program (CHP) should keep in contact with CHP counselors about requirements for completion, as they may differ from ICSHP requirements.    
  
     
      
      
     
          Read more   
  
      
      
   
  
   
           
                  
  
  
  
  
  
  
                             
                        
                       
         
               
     
              </body> 