 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Articles  


     
  

 
 

  June 10,  2004</strong>  Daily Pilot    UCI benefactor Bren breaks new ground</strong>   By Tony Dodero</strong>    The Irvine Co. first supported higher education with a large endowment to the state in 1959.     UC IRVINE - College educators, high-tech computer aficionados, politicians and businessmen toasted the Irvine Co. Chairman Donald Bren Wednesday for his considerable financial help and long-term vision to fortify the future of the university's cutting-edge computer science school.    Bren, who was revealed recently to be the benefactor of a previously anonymous $20-million gift last December, and who makes few public appearances, was the honored guest at an elaborate groundbreaking ceremony that featured a parade of alumni from the computer science school, credited with masterminding everything from the early days of three-dimensional, computer-aided design to creating Internet domain names.    Bren noted that the idea for the endowment was spawned 20 years ago in a meeting with former UCI Chancellor Jack Peltason in Washington, D.C.    "He said something that I will never forget," Bren said. "He said 'At the end of the day, the key to a university's standing, its reputation, its educational excellence and the quality of its research is rooted in the excellence of its faculty.'"    Bren called the University of California "the most important institution in California," and pointed out that the Irvine Co. began its relationship with higher education with a large endowment to the state in 1959.    "Our company feels very much a part of the UCI campus," he said.    In addition to honoring Bren, whose name will adorn the new School of Information and Computer Sciences, Wednesday's event was a celebration of the appointment of the school's first dean, Debra Richardson, as well as the start of construction on the new building that will house the school. That building, to be named Bren Hall, will be six stories with 138,000 square feet of research and classroom facilities when its completed in 2006.     But more than just welcoming the physical building that will be home to the school, university officials noted that the money from Bren will enable them to hire top-flight educators and continue to build the reputation of the nationally ranked computer science school that has already produced a bevy of celebrity-like computer scientists.    Among the noted alumni on hand Wednesday were Patrick Hanratty, considered the father of computer-aided design or CAD; Paul Mockapetris, creator of the Domain Name System widely used on the Internet; Roy Fielding, the architect of the Internet's Hypertext Transfer Protocol or HTTP; Adam Bonner, the co-founder with fellow UCI grad Victor Liu of Network Synthesis computing systems; and Sepideh Gazeri, a UCI student who completed her bachelor's degree in three years and is entering the school's MBA program in the fall.    Richardson promised that the school will continue to be the pioneer of new technologies like "ubiquitous" computing, which envisions a world where computers are a part of all aspects of daily living.    "[The computer school] is a spectacular success story," Richardson said. "Top 10 in five [years], that's our goal."    Out of Bren's gift, $18 million will go for 10 endowed chairs for distinguished faculty. The remainder will be used for research and other technology developments.    "Today we are celebrating an extremely empowering gift," said UCI Chancellor Ralph Cicerone.    Ted Smith, the chair of the UCI Foundation, thanked Bren for his $20 million investment in the university.    "The return of intellectual capital will be returned many times on his investment today," Smith said.    Bren was also presented with the University of California's prestigious Presidential Medal, the university's highest honor, for his philanthropy to the entire university system.    "It's a heavy honor to carry around," said a joking Bren about the Olympic-style medallion.    The $20 million for the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Science is just one in a long line of contributions totaling more than $40 million that the well-known philanthropist and billionaire has made to UCI and the UC system.    His money has helped establish the Donald Bren Endowment, bringing in the best and brightest faculty to the college; the Donald Bren Events Center; and was the reason behind the naming of the Claire Trevor School of the Arts, which is named after his late stepmother, the Academy Award-winning actress Claire Trevor Bren.    "Today is a special day for me, so I am grateful for your kind and generous recognition," Bren said. "I am both proud and honored to be permanently associated with this unique school."  UCI benefactor Bren breaks new ground 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 