 Research Centers at UCI's Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Faculty  &gt;  Research centers  


     
 ICS Research Centers 

 
 

  Organized research programs provide a mechanism and organizational structure within which collective research activities can take place that are fundamentally different from those that occur normally within the schools and departments. They are intended to foster the development of short- and long-term research programs that span disciplines and academic units, thereby making it possible for faculty to acquire extramural resources for which they might not otherwise qualify. The following is a list of the research centers that are part of ICS: 
  ABRC - Ada Byron Research Center    ABRC studies and promotes diverse access to and participation in computer science, engineering, digital media and related information technology fields. 
  Calit2 - California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology    A multidisciplinary research institute in collaboration with UCSD, Calit2@UCI integrates academic research with industry experience to seek innovative IT approaches that will benefit society and ignite economic development. 
  CDT - Center for Digital Transformation    One of the world's leading think tanks on the impact of information technology on organizations and society and on the management of information technology. 
  Center for Algorithms and Theory of Computation    The goal of research in theoretical computer science is to produce results, supported by rigorous proof, about problems dealing with computers and their applications. 
  Center for Embedded Computer Systems    Conducting leading-edge interdisciplinary research in embedded systems, the center develops innovative design methodologies, and promote technology and knowledge transfer for the benefit of the individual and society. 
  Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems    Addresses the challenges of the modern data-driven world, using computer algorithms to discover useful information from vast data archives. 
 
  Center for Social Computing</strong> Conducts foundational research into the relationship between information technology and society. Based at UCI, the center brings together an interdisciplinary group of researchers from leading U.S. universities. 
 
  CERT - Center for Emergency Response Technologies    Works to radically transform the ability of responding organizations to gather, manage, use, and disseminate information within emergency response networks and to the general public. By using more robust information systems, response can focus on activities that have the highest potential to save lives and property. 
  COR - Center for Organizational Research    COR contributes to the development of organization theory by connecting scholars from many disciplines who bring their knowledge and methods to a common understanding of these issues. 
  CPCC - Center for Pervasive Communications and Computing    Dedicated to serving the vision of wearable computers with wireless connections that enable anyone to have continuous voice, video, and data connectivity. 
  Computational Vision Lab  The Computational Vision Lab focuses on understanding the information processing capabilities of biological visual systems and on developing computational systems for processing visual media. 
  IGB - Institute for Genomics and BioInformatics    Fostering innovative basic and applied research in genomics and BioInformatics, IGB works with established companies, start-ups, government agencies and standards bodies to develop and transition these technologies to widespread and practical application. 
  ISR - Institute for Software Research    Works toward advancing software and information technology through research partnerships and educating the next generation of software researchers and practitioners in advanced software technologies. 
 
  IVECG - Institute for Virtual Environments and Computer Games   Brings together researchers for the common goal of understanding and creating technology and applications that transform how we: see the world through immersive visualization and virtual tours; interact and socialize with global communities; communicate and collaborate with colleagues in virtual collaborative space; provide medical care and training to remote corners of the world; and educate all ages and populations using virtual environments. 
 
  LUCI - Laboratory for Ubiquitous Computing and Interaction    Addresses the entire range of research problems that arise from the ubiquitous computing vision: the design of novel devices, the structure of software systems, techniques for designing and building systems, patterns of interaction, and the cultural implications of ubiquitous computing. 
  Secure Systems and Software Laboratory    The Secure Systems and Software Laboratory at the University of California, Irvine. 
  SCONCE - Secure Computing and Networking Center     SCONCE focuses on research for protecting information and computing infrastructure with an emphasis in areas like applied cryptography, network security and information assurance. 


 
 
 
  More faculty » 
   Research areas  
  Research centers  
  Research highlights  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 