 Social thinkers @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Social thinkers 

 
 

  ISTC-Social welcomes an interdisciplinary class of fellows for 2013-2014  



 
   Bren School Ph.D. student Ellie Harmon is among 10 ISTC-Social graduate research fellows 



 





 
Why do some backcountry hikers joke about how great it is to find a “three-bar forest” 
— a stretch of wilderness where their cell phones get a strong signal? How do people 
decide who gets to run the Facebook page of their deceased friend? How do the engineers 
behind online music-recommendation systems guess that fans of The National might also 
like Arcade Fire?
 
 
These are just a few of the questions being explored by this year’s class of fellows at the  
Intel Science and Technology Center (ISTC) for Social Computing , one of a network of 
university-based research centers supported by Intel Corporation. Based at UC Irvine, 
ISTC-Social is focused particularly on interdisciplinary investigations of the social and 
cultural aspects of information technology and digital media.
 
 
Graduate fellows are expected to participate in all ISTC activities and not only at UCI: 
Visits to Intel Labs in Portland and the center’s partner campuses (Georgia Tech, NYU, 
Cornell and Indiana University) are also part of the program. 
 
 
Informatics professor Paul Dourish of the Donald Bren School of Information and 
Computer Sciences, one of ISTC-Social’s co-directors, says this sort of collaborative
thinking has been a great fit at UCI.
 
 
“That’s one of the reasons Intel came to us when thinking of developing an ISTC in the 
area of social computing,” Dourish says. “They were very attracted to the way we put 
informatics and anthropology together. The question of what technology does is not
simply a technical question. You need to understand technology as a social and cultural
phenomenon.”
 
 
When it first launched, ISTC-Social awarded four yearlong fellowships at UCI for the 
2012-2013 academic year. This year, all four of those graduate student researchers have
received another fellowship, and they have been joined by six more scholars.
 
 
“As we’ve ramped up and figured out how to work on different, independent projects 
at the same time — all of which feed into larger-scale programs — we were more 
comfortable with more fellows this year,” says Bill Maurer, dean of the School of Social 
Sciences and the other co-director of ISTC-Social.
 
 
Five of the 2013-2014 ISTC-Social Fellows are from the Bren School of ICS, one is 
from the School of Social Ecology, and four are from Social Sciences. Nick Seaver, a 
Ph.D. student from the Department of Anthropology, is investigating how online music-
streaming companies like Pandora develop the algorithms that determine what kind of 
music to recommend to users, based upon their existing choices.
 
 
“My last project was on the history of the player piano, and this one draws on that: 
They’re both examples of what happens when technology gets mushed up with music 
— which is supposed to be an expressive thing, not an automatic thing,” Seaver says. 
“People say there’s no accounting for taste. Well, these big systems are trying to do 
exactly that, and they have very complicated ideas about whether or not this is something 
you can compute.”
 
 
Like Seaver, Ellie Harmon from the Department of Informatics is in her second year as 
an ISTC-Social fellow. Last year, she researched how suburban families use smartphone 
technology to stay connected; this year she has just returned from traversing the Pacific 
Crest Trail, the 2,663-mile track that stretches from the U.S.-Mexico border to the U.S.-
Canada border, where she examined how hikers experience smartphone connectivity (or 
the lack of it).
 
 
“There’s this idea in popular media that getting rid of this technology lets you be better, 
more present, which I don’t think is quite right,” Harmon says. “We’re all kind of used to 
being able to get in touch with anyone at any time, and when we can’t, it’s stressful.”
 
 
“One of the things that’s so interesting about smartphones is how personal they are for 
people,” she says. “I think it becomes an important part of who we are, and how we 
experience ourselves, and how we experience other people.”
 
 
Harmon adds that, coming from a computer-science background, she appreciates the 
opportunity to kick around ideas with the social scientists at the center. “That’s one of 
the really nice things about the ISTC,” she says. “It’s one thing to go over to another 
department and take a bunch of classes. It’s another to have a space where everyone’s 
just coming together anyway.”
 
 
Which is, of course, the whole point of ISTC-Social. “I think we’re on the cutting 
edge here,” says Bill Maurer. “We’re really blazing a trail for multi-investigator, 
multidisciplinary work.”





 
 
 ISTC-SOCIAL 2013-14 FELLOWS &amp; PROJECTS: 
 



 
JED BRUBAKER, ICS   “Digital Gravetending: Moderating and Mediating Online Identities for the Deceased”  
 
Demonstrates how social media platforms and user practices are changing the conditions under which Americans experience death and mourning.
 
 
MARK DUROCHER, Social Sciences   “Evaluating Data: The Emerging Economy of Social Media Marketing”  
Explores the evolving landscape of the marketing industry and the specific services and technologies that social media agencies offer.
 
 
JULIA HAINES, ICS   “The Seed Accelerator Model and the Development of Global Innovation
Ecosystems”  
 
Focuses on three innovation hubs in different stages of growth — Silicon Valley, Singapore and Santiago, Chile — to investigate the effects of startup programs at the micro and macro levels.
 
 
ELLIE HARMON, ICS   “Experiencing (Dis)Connection: Mobile Technologies in the Wilderness”  
 
A study of the experience of connectivity through a multi-sited ethnographic study of three situations: working professionals, suburban families and long-distance hikers on the Pacific Crest Trail.
 
 
ALEXANDER KNOEPFLMACHER. Social Sciences   “Digital Treasure Chests: Ethnographic Approaches to File-Sharing Communities”  
 
An ethnographic portrait of the materialities of file-sharing and hard-drive curation at an online file-sharing community.
 
 
ALLISON LASKEY, Social Ecology   “Permaculture and Dynamics of Rootedness and Connectivity”  
 
An investigation into knowledge-making and knowledge-sharing practices among the permaculture community.
 
 
COURTNEY LODER, ICS   “Beyond Non-Use: Cryptographic Practice as Infrastructural Negotiation and Resistance”  
 
An inquiry into the ways people engage with systems, platforms and web services in the presence of ideological difference.
 
 
STEPHEN REA, Social Sciences   “Garbage People and Model Workers: Bodies, Computers, and Productivity in South Korea”  
 
An examination of macro-level institutional concerns with the embodied micro-practices of computer use in Korea.
 
 
NICK SEAVER, Social Sciences   “Computing Taste: The Making of Algorithmic Music Recommendations”  
 
A multi-sited ethnographic study of music recommendation researchers at corporate and academic sites in the United States, that will explore the motivations behind design decisions that shape filtering algorithms.
 
 
JOHN SEBERGER, ICS   “We the Author: Synchronous and Deeply Asynchronous Collaboration in Humanities Scholarship”  
 
A yearlong, qualitative study of the role of collaboration in the acquisition of expertise among six newly matriculated Ph.D. students in the humanities.
 





  
 — Story by Ted B. Kissell  
 — Photo by Robert Farmer  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 