 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  November 21,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         3 ICS researchers named AAAS fellows

</strong>
              Ramesh Jain, Hal Stern and Gene Tsudik are recognized by the American Association for the Advancement of Science for contributions to their fields.    
                    
Three faculty members from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) have been named fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science ( AAAS ), the world’s largest general scientific society. Donald Bren Professor of Computer Science  Ramesh Jain</strong>, Ted and Janice Smith Family Foundation Dean  Hal Stern</strong> and Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science  Gene Tsudik</strong> were among nine other UC Irvine researchers honored by AAAS this year.
 
  
A total of 391 AAAS members are being honored this year for their efforts to further science or its applications. New fellows will receive an official certificate and a gold-and-blue rosette pin on Feb. 18, 2017, at the organization’s annual meeting in Boston. They will also be formally announced in the Nov. 25, 2016 AAAS News &amp; Notes section of the journal   Science  .
 

  
“The AAAS plays an important role with the advancement of scientific research, education and outreach in the U.S.,” said Pramod Khargonekar, UCI vice chancellor for research. “These brilliant scientists – who represent a broad spectrum of academic pursuits – personify UCI’s research innovation and excellence, and we are proud of their achievements.”

 
  
Jain is noted for his distinguished contributions to the fields of computer vision, multimedia information management and experiential computing resulting in transforming the multimedia community with multiple successes in innovation and entrepreneurship. Stern is recognized for his high-impact contributions to statistical methodology and important applications, for development and application of Bayesian methods, and for high-leverage national service and university administration. Tsudik is noted for his contributions to security and privacy of the Internet.

 
  
“The AAAS mission is to advance science in its service of society,” said Stern. “The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences prides itself on performing research that uses computational and technological tools to help address societal challenges, and for this reason it is a great honor for three ICS faculty members to be recognized in the same year.”

 
  
A total of nine UC Irvine researchers in areas ranging from anthropology and psychology to computer science and biology were named AAAS fellows this year, bringing UCI’s total to 150 AAAS fellows. Within ICS Jain, Stern and Tsudik join five other ICS colleagues who have previously been named AAAS Fellows: Eric Mjolsness (Computer Science), Geoffrey Bowker (Informatics), Pierre Baldi (Computer Science), Michael Goodrich (Computer Science) and Jessica Utts (Statistics).

   
For more information, read the official UC Irvine  announcement &gt; 




   3 ICS researchers named AAAS fellows

    
                &lt; Previous 
                 ICS-Engineering Leadership Council’s Diversity Committee Receives NAMEPA Wings to Succeed Award


              
                Next &gt; 
                 UCI team places first in regional ACM competition, advances to international finals in May


             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 