  GLAD<body>
    GLAD  
  
     Name:  
GLAD (Generic LAyout for Directed Graphs)
 
     Source:    
University of California, Irvine.  Arcadia Project.
 
     Brief description:   
GLAD is an Ada generic package providing static or dynamic layout
facilities for directed graphs.  Given a
description of a graph, it provides coordinate sets for the positioning
of elements of a graph on an arbitrary cartesian coordinate plane.
Layout coordinates can be provided for either a complete graph description
or incremental, dynamic updates to a graph structure.  This allows dynamic
graph editing, including addition and deletion of any graph element.
Provisions are available to provide minimum disturbance of a current layout
description when edit updates to the graph structure are made.  The system
does not impose any particular user interface on the instantiator, and
does not assume anything about the actual display of a graph, except the
location of graph elements, which it provides.  Facilities are provided
for balancing the layout structure.  If order of graph nodes is not
important, a facility to reduce edge crossings is also available.
 
     Evaluation against applicable general dimensions:  
 
     Availability: commercial/licensed/public domain    
Public domain.
 
       Cost:  
Public domain.
	ftp://liege.ics.uci.edu/pub/arcadia/glad
 
       Degree of support/maturity/testing/usage:   
An early version of the system that did not allow deletion of graph
	elements received wide use within the Arcadia consortium using
	Chiron and Interviews as user interfaces.  A preliminary version
	of the latest system is also being used by a number of Chiron
	artists within the consortium.
 
       Speed:   
GLAD's performance has yet to be calculated, but is largely dependent
	on the actual operations performed and the size of the graph being
	manipulated.  Instantiation within a Chiron artist gives reasonable
	interactive performance for graphs with fewer than one hundred nodes.
 
       Computing platforms:   
Unix. Developed under SunAda version 1.1.
 
       Language compatibilities:  
Written as an Ada generic package.
 
       Footprint: 
      Source:  1.6 kB
     
       Openness/integrability/source availability:  
GLAD is an Ada generic, and requires that an instantiator be able
	to provide the necessary information about a graph for layout through
	generic parameters.
 
       Extensibility:  
N/A.
 
       Pedigree: ARPA developed?    
Developed under ARPA grant number MDA972-91-J-1010
   
     Contact persons: 
  Craig Snider 
Department of Information and Computer Science 
University of California 
Irvine, CA 92717 
snider@ics.uci.edu 
(714) 824-7202 
(714) 824-4056 - fax
 
 
     Pointers to literature, demos, etc.: 
	N/A
   
   
  
 The Arcadia Project
&lt;arcadia-www@ics.uci.edu&gt;  
Last modified: Wed Nov 30 14:44:41 1994
 
</body> 