  
	 
	    
	 
		 Purpose: 
The purpose of this system is to assist in the identification of
spilled puddles of liquid in microchip manufacturing plants. This is an
important problem to solve because while some puddles in the plant may
be harmless (leaking fire sprinkler pipe), others may be potential
biohazards (any of the over sixty dangerous acids, solvents, caustics,
etc). This danger means that any puddle not immediately recognized must
be treated as a biohazard, and causes the plant to close down until a
HazMat team can determine the puddle’s origin. This often shuts the
plant down for the remainder of the day, resulting in monetary loss for
the company that owns the plant. Being able to determine the
composition of a puddle without shutting down the plant and waiting for
HazMat effectively increases the lifespan of the plant.    

	  
		 Features: 
		 Background 
		The system uses UnrealEd to recreate a microchip manufacturing plant. 
The Unreal Tournament 2004 game engine allows the user to navigate the
plant via a custom character model (most likely to be a HazMat worker
or an Intel employee in a “bunny suit”).   Models 
		  
		The system will model, texture, and display the following dangers:   Manufacturing machines  
			 Pipes (sprinkler, coolants, etc)  
			 Robotic carriage tracks  
			 Human ignorance  
		 
Many of the models used will be either from the standard UnrealEd
package, or are created by using the built-in CSG geometry and
texturing them with standard textures. 
		The rest of the models will be created custom using Discreet 3DStudioMax 7. 
		The demo uses the follwing models, whose images are taken from the UCI Integrated Nanosystems Research Facility website.   
				Quintel Aligner    
			 
				Technics Plasma Etcher    
			 
				Hitachi Scanning Electron Microscope    
		 
		The system can be modified to recreate any plant layout and any set of machinery. 
		The system could easily be modified to function for other manufacturing plants.     The Squirtgun 
		Spills are placed using a specially designed and programmed gun (the Squirtgun). 
		When the user fires the Squirtgun, it places a puddle wherever the reticle is aimed.   
		For sake of easy, the Squirtgun has a simple targeting reticle, and no recoil when fired. 
On impact, the puddle uses its location to calculate the most likely
composition a puddle in that location would have, and displays this
information.   
A limited number (to be determined at a later time) of puddles may be
placed at once; when the limit is reached, the oldest puddle (and all
its information) will disappear.  

	  
		 How to use: 
The system is very easy to use, as all that the user is required to do
is place a puddle. The user navigates through the plant, using standard
Unreal Tournament 2004 movement (WASD keystrokes to move, mouse to
look), and fires the Squirtgun (left mouse button) to place a puddle in
an appropriate spot. The puddle will appear where the Squirtgun is
aimed, and will display the three most likely compositions of the
puddle. If there are fewer than three possible composition/source
pairs, then the one or two possible will be displayed, leaving the
third space blank. If there is no possible composition/source pair for
a puddle’s location, the puddle will display the message "No
composition or source found".     


	
	       
</body> 