 Home | UCI 
 
		 
			 
				 Skip to main content 
			 
		 
	 
 
		 
			
			 UCI  homepage  
		 
		 
		
	  
						    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
													
				  About  				
										
														    About Us   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   University Facts   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Strategic Plan   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   Power of I   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Chancellor   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Peter the Anteater   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   Diversity Resources   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   Administrative Offices   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Academic Senate   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Directory   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   Visit   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   Work at UCI   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Support UCI   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Smoke-Free Campus   
																		
								
										  
										 
						    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
													
				  Admissions  				
										
														    Undergraduate Admission   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Graduate Admission   
																		
								
											
								
								
									   
											
								
									
    	
    		
	
					  Professional Programs  
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Business   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Law   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Medicine   
																		
								
											
								
								
									   
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Undergraduate International Admissions   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Graduate International Admissions   
																		
								
											
								
								
									   
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Financial Aid   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Housing   
																		
								
										  
										 
						    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
													
				  Academics  				
										
														    Arts   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Biological Sciences   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Business   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Education   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Engineering   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Humanities   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Information &amp; Computer Sciences   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Interdisciplinary Studies   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Law   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Medicine   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Nursing Science   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Pharmaceutical Sciences   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Physical Sciences   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Public Health   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Social Ecology   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Social Sciences   
																		
								
											
								
								
									   
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   General Catalogue   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Majors &amp; Minors   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Schedule of Classes   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Undergraduate/Undeclared   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Division of Undergraduate Education   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Graduate Division   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Division of Continuing Education   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Campuswide Honors Program   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Undergraduate Research   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   UCI CalTeach   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Libraries   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Study Abroad Center   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Summer Session   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Academic Calendars   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Academic Senate   
																		
								
										  
										 
						    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
													
				  Research  				
										
														    Office of Research   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Faculty Profiles   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Postdoctoral Scholars   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Applied Innovation   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Invention Transfer Group   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Undergraduate Research   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Graduate Research   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Research Centers &amp; Units   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   UCOP Office of Research   
																		
								
										  
										 
						    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
													
				  Community  				
										
														    Arts   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Athletics   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   K-12 Programs   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   Youth Camps   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Campus Events Calendar   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Conference &amp; Event Services   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Hospital   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Medical Services   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Clinical Trials   
																		
								
										  
								
    	
    		
	
									 
				
									    Prospective Students   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Current Students   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Alumni   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Faculty &amp; Staff   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Parents   
																		
								
										  
		  
						    
		
    				
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
								  Donate  to UCI   
										
		
					 Orange County    --° 
	
			 
		 
	 


 	
	
		
	 	
	
			 
				 
					 
						 
			
		   	
								 
				
						 
							
											 Search 
								 
									
									
								 
							
						 
					 
				 
			 
	
		
	     eSports authority 
  Winter issue of UCI Magazine highlights campus’s pioneering role in competitive video gaming        	
	
  Home 

	    
						
															
 
		 
			 
				   Top  
				  The Buzz  
				  News  
				  Who We Are  
				  Visit  
				  Events  
				  Arts &amp; Athletics  
				  Initiatives  
				  Health  
				  Alumni &amp; Giving  
				  Resources  
						  
		 
	 
 
		 
			 
				 
					  The Buzz  
				 
			 
			 
				 
					 
						  Out of the shadows  
						   UCI faculty bring hidden figures into the light for Black History Month </strong> 
					 
				 
			 
			 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
				 
					 
						   New mood in nursing   
						 School status, ambitious dean and planned construction of much larger building invigorate faculty, staff and students 
					 
				 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
				 
					 
						   A guiding light   
						 Native American physicist blazes trail for others at UCI 
					 
				 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
				 
					 
						   Pod pride   
						 UCI team shows off its prototype for Hyperloop transportation system at competition 
					 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			
		 
	 
 
		 
			  News  
		 
	 
	 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
		 
			 
				   Dance Visions 2017 brings master choreographers to the Irvine Barclay Theatre   
				 New Distinguished Professor Lar Lubovitch makes his UCI debut 
			 
		 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
		 
			 
				   UCI, NASA reveal new details of Greenland ice loss   
				 Data are dramatically increasing knowledge of how the ocean is melting the ice sheet 
			 
		 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
		 
			 
				   UCI engineers develop powerful millimeter-wave signal generator   
				 Device could revolutionize scanning, spectroscopy and wireless communication 
			 
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
					  Visit UCI News     
					  Media Inquiries     
					  Find an Expert     
				 
			 
		 
	 
 
		 
			 
				 
					  Who We Are  
				 
			 
			 
				 
					 
						 Founded in 1965, UCI is the youngest member of the prestigious Association of American Universities. The campus has produced three Nobel laureates and is known for its academic achievement, premier research, innovation and anteater mascot. Led by Chancellor Howard Gillman, UCI has more than 30,000 students and offers 192 degree programs. It’s located in one of the world’s safest and most economically vibrant communities and is Orange County’s second-largest employer, contributing $5 billion annually to the local economy. 
			    
		
    			
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
			  About UCI  
						 
				 
			 
			 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
				 
					 
						   Academics   
						 UCI is a center for quality education that fosters passionate, enthusiastic and ongoing expansion of knowledge and approaches to scholarship. 
					 
				 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
				 
					 
						   Research Programs   
						 UCI is improving lives through the investigation, discovery and dissemination of knowledge in numerous forms to all levels of society. 
					 
				 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
				 
					 
						   Our Community   
						 UCI students, faculty and staff reach beyond the classrooms and laboratories to address social issues and improve the human condition. 
					 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			
		 
	 
 
		 
			 
				 
					  Visit  
				 
			 
			 
				 
					 
						 UCI combines the strengths of a major research university with the bounty of an incomparable Southern California location. 
			    
		
    				
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
			  Learn  more about visiting our campus   
						 
				 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
				 
					 
						   Campus Maps   
						 Visit the Campus Maps page for the best way to reach UCI and locate intended campus destinations, as well as nearby parking options. 
					 
				 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
				 
					 
						   Visitor Center   
						 The Visitor Center welcomes prospective students and their parents, alumni and all visitors who want to know more about the university. 
					 
				 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
				 
					 
						   Parking &amp; Transportation   
						 Transportation &amp; Distribution Services offers information on parking rates and timely updates on sustainable commuting options. 
					 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			
		 
	 
 
		 
			  Events  
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  There’s always something interesting going on at UCI. Enlightening classes, engaging public lectures, captivating performances and exciting athletic events take place year-round.  
	    
		
    				
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		   UCI campus  Calendar  
			 
		 
		 
			 
				   
					 
						 Feb. 13: Medical Humanities 
						 Pediatric Ethics: Lessons for Grown Ups 
					 
				 
					   
					 
						 Feb. 14: Institute for Genomics &amp; Bioinformatics 
						  Discovery-Oriented Analysis of Public Gene Expression Compendia  
					 
				 
				 
			 
					   
					 
						 Feb. 14: Law 
						  Elite Tax Professionals Behaving Badly: The Sad and Sordid Management Fee Waiver Saga  
					 
				 
					   
					 
						 Feb. 15: Student Affairs 
						  Defamation  
					 
				 
				 
		 
	 
  Arts &amp; Athletics  
	 
	
    					 
			 
				 
					 Arts 
					  Claire Trevor School of the Arts is UCI's center for innovative, creative engagement in art in all of its facets: production, critique, appreciation and development.  
					    
		
    				
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
				  Learn  more about the Claire Trevor School of the Arts   
					    
		
    					
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
				   Get  Tickets  to an arts event   
						 
			 
		 
	
	
    					 
			 
				 
					 Athletics 
					  Our mission is to facilitate and enrich the education and personal growth of students through their participation in competitive NCAA Division I athletics.  
					    
		
    				
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
				  Learn  more about UCI Athletics   
					    
		
    					
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
				   Get  Tickets  to an athletic event   
						 
			 
		 
	
	 
 
		 
			  Initiatives  
		 
	 	
	 
	
    					 
			 
				 
					 Innovation 
					 UCI Applied Innovation brings together bright minds from the campus community and industry. This collaboration delivers promising innovations to the market and strengthens invaluable connections to the business world. 
					    
		
    				
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
				  Learn  more about Applied Innovation   
						 
			 
		 
	
	
    			
		
		
		
																			    
		
    				
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
																										    
		
    				
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
															    Illuminations   All UCI students, regardless of major, should have serious and meaningful exposure to the creative arts. In addition, we seek to strengthen the connections between UCI and our regional arts and culture centers and institutions.    Learn  more about the Illuminations initiative      		
	
	 
 
		 
			 
				 
					  Health  
				 
			 
			 
				 
					 
						  UC Irvine Health provides the highest quality healthcare to Orange County and surrounding communities through its world-class physicians, surgeons and clinical staff.  
	    
		
    			
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		  UC Irvine Health  
					 
				 
				 
					 
						 
							
						 
					 
				 
				 
					 
						 Delivering world-class healthcare – and hope 
					 
				 
			 
		 
	 
  Alumni &amp; Giving  
	 
	
    					 
			 
				 
					 Alumni 
					  Founded in 1968, the UCI Alumni Association offers an enriching and supportive hub for graduates, fosters lifelong Anteater pride and welcomes non-alumni community participation.  
					    
		
    				
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
				  Learn  more about the UCI Alumni Association   
					    
		
    				
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
				  Join  the UCI Alumni Association   
						 
			 
		 
	
	
    					 
			 
				 
					 Giving 
					 On Wednesday, April 12, UCI will participate in our inaugural Giving Day campaign. Giving Day is an exciting, 24-hour online fundraising campaign supporting your area of interest at UCI. 
					    
		
    				
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
				  Learn  Giving   
					    
		
    				
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
				  Donate  to UCI   
						 
			 
		 
	
	 
  Resources  
	 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
		 
			 
				   Work at UCI   
				  UCI is a great place to work. Start your job search here.  
			 
		 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
		 
			 
				   Emergency Preparedness   
				  Learn simple steps to be better prepared for an emergency – at work and at home.  
			 
		 
	    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
		 
			 
				   Disability Services   
				  Resources for students, parents and faculty members.  
			 
		 
	 
 
	 
		  

					
				
					 
																		      Facebook   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																													     Twitter   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																													     YouTube   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																													     Instagram   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																													     Flickr   
																										     Social Media Directory   
																										  
										
				
					 
																		    UCI Gmail   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Webmail   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   EEE   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																													
								   Work at UCI   								
																				    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Emergency Preparedness   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Disability Services   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Office of the Chancellor   
																										     University of California   
																										  
											  
			  
													
				
					 
																		    Feedback   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																													
								   Privacy Policy   								
																				    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Media Inquiries   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Accreditation Information   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Clery Act   
																										  
						
		
		
				 
						 
						 University of California, Irvine 
						  Irvine, CA 92697 						  949-824-5011 											 
						 
									
    			
    		
	
											
					  
					 
		  
	 

     
         

		  © 2017 UC Regents  
         
     
 
</body> 