  COIL 1999 Competition Data<body>


  COIL 1999 Competition Data  


 Data Type 
multivariate


 Abstract 
 
This data set is from the 1999 Computational Intelligence and Learning
(COIL) competition. The data contains measurements of river chemical
concentrations and algae densities. 



   Sources 
  Original Owner 
 
 ERUDIT 
European Network for Fuzzy Logic and Uncertainty Modelling
in Information Technology
 
  Donor 
 
Jens Strackeljan
Technical University Clausthal
Institute of Applied Mechanics
Graupenstr. 3, 38678 Clausthal-Zellerfeld, Germany
 tmjs@itm.tu-clausthal.de 
 

 Date Donated:   September 9, 1999




  Data Characteristics 

 
This data comes from a water quality study where samples were
taken from sites on different European rivers of a period of
approximately one year.  These samples were analyzed for various
chemical substances including: nitrogen in the form of nitrates,
nitrites and ammonia, phosphate, pH, oxygen, chloride.
In parallel, algae samples were collected to determine the algae population
distributions. 


   Other Relevant Information 

 
The competition involved the prediction of algal frequency distributions
on the basis of the measured concentrations of the chemical
substances and the global information concerning the season when the sample
was taken, the river size and its flow velocity. The competition 
 instructions  contain additional information 
on the prediction task.
 




 Data Format 

 
There are a total of 340 examples each containing 17 values. The
first 11 values of each data set are the season, the river
size, the fluid velocity and 8 chemical concentrations which
should be relevant for the algae population distribution.
The last 8 values of each example are the distribution of
different kinds of algae. These 8 kinds are only a very small
part of the whole community, but for the competition we limited
the number to 7. The value 0.0 means that the frequency is very low.
The data set also contains some empty fields which are labeled
with the string XXXXX.

	  The training data are saved in the file:  analysis.data  (ASCII format).  
	 Table 1: Structure of the file  analysis.data   

	    
		 A   
		   
		   
		   
		  
		 K   
		  
		 a   
		   
		   
		  
		  g  
	    
		 CC 1,1   
		   
		   
		   
		  
		 CC 1,11   
		  
		 AG 1,1   
		   
		   
		  
		 AG 1,7   
	     
		   
		   
		   
		   
		   
		   
		   
		   
	    
		 CC 200,1   
		   
		   
		   
		  
		 CC 200,11   
		  
		 AG 200,1   
		   
		   
		  
		 AG 200,7   
	   Explanation: 
		CC i,j : Chemical concentration or river characteristic 
		AG i,j : Algal frequency  
	 The chemical parameters are labeled as A, ..., K. The columns of the algaes are labeled as a,
		..,g.   



 Past Usage 


 
  The Third (1999) International COIL Competition Home Page 
 









     
 The UCI KDD Archive    Information and Computer Science    University of California, Irvine   
Irvine, CA 92697-3425    
Last modified: October 13, 1999 
</body> 