 Euler's Formula<body>
     
  Euler's Formula,
Proof 16: Binary Space Partition
 

 A  binary space partition 
is a data structure commonly used for computer
graphics and other geometric searching problems.  It's formed by cutting
space by a hyperplane, then recursively partitioning each of the two
resulting halfspaces.  The result is a hierarchical decomposition of
space into convex cells. 

 In 1974,  Helge Tverberg  showed that, given
any convex polytope K, one can find a binary space partition that decomposes
K into simplices.  This is obvious for two dimensional polytopes (just
repeatedly cut along polygon diagonals); the general proof proceeds by
induction on dimension and number of faces: 

 
We assume K is not a simplex or we would already be done.

 If K has a vertex P incident to more than d facets, then (by induction on dimension) we can partition K by hyperplanes through P into smaller polytopes
each of which has exactly d facets incident to P.
The number of facets not incident to P in each of these polytopes
is at most the same as in K, so each smaller polytope has fewer facets than K.
By induction on number of facets, we can recursively partition the smaller polytopes into simplices.

  On the other hand suppose that each vertex of K has only d incident facets.
Let P be a vertex of K that is not adjacent to some two facets F1 and F2
(we can find P, F1, and F2 by induction on dimension if K has a non-simplicial facet; if all facets of K are simplices, let F1 and F2 be two adjacent facets and P be any vertex other than the d+1 vertices shared by F1 and F2).
Let L be the hyperline contained in the hyperplanes through F1 and F2,
and cut K by a hyperplane through P and L.
Then each of the two pieces avoids one of the facets Fi, but has a new facet
on the cut plane, so its number of facets is not increased.
One can show that each piece either has more than d facets at P
(in which case we can apply the previous case), or avoids an additional
facet of K (in which case we can apply induction on the number of
facets), so either way we can partition each piece recursively.
  

The number of cuts in this partition may be exponential in the number of facets,
but this seems unavoidable due to examples like the hypercube which have few facets but require many cuts.

 Tverberg then proves that the Euler characteristic X(K)
(as defined more precisely for the
 shelling proof ) is always zero,
by induction on dimension and on the number of cuts in the binary space
partition:

  
If K is a simplex, the number of faces of any dimension is
counted by a binomial coefficient, and the identity X(K)=0
is just the application of the binomial theorem to
the evaluation of (1+x) d  at x = -1.

 Otherwise, let the top level cut of the
binary space partition split K into
two polytopes K1 and K2.  Let K3 be the convex hull of
the set of vertices of K that are contained in the cutting hyperplane,
and let K4 be the intersection of K with the cutting hyperplane.
Then we have the formula

  
X(K) = X(K1) + X(K2) + 2 X(K3) - 3 X(K4),
 

 since each face of K is either contained in the cutting hyperplane
(contributing to all four terms X(Ki)), split by the cutting hyperplane
(forming a face of one lower dimension in K1, K2, and K4, and
contributing a negated term to each of these three polytopes' Euler
characteristics), or is contained in one of the two halfspaces (and
contributes only to X(K1) or X(K2)).

  K1 and K2 have smaller binary space partitions, and K3 and K4 have lower dimension, so by induction all have zero Euler characteristic.
Therefore, X(K) is also zero.
  
    
 Proofs of Euler's Formula . 
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file.
Last update: .  </body> 