 2001-02 UCI Catalogue: Appendix<body>
  
 APPENDIX, CONTINUED 
 
 
 Principles of Community 
 
 
UCI is a multicultural community of people from diverse backgrounds. Our activities, programs, classes, workshops, lectures, and everyday interactions are enriched by our acceptance of one another, and we strive to learn from each other in an atmosphere of positive engagement and mutual respect.

  
Our legacy for an increasingly multicultural academic community and for a learning climate free from expressions of bigotry is drawn from the United States and California Constitutions, and from the charter of the University of California which protects diversity and reaffirms our commitment to the protection of lawful free speech. Affirmation of that freedom is an effective way of ensuring that acts of bigotry and abusive behavior will not go unchallenged within the University. Tolerance, civility, and mutual respect for diversity of background, gender, ethnicity, race, and religion are as crucial within our campus community as are tolerance, civility, and mutual respect for diversity of political beliefs, sexual orientation, and physical abilities. Education and clear, rational, and vigorous challenges are positive responses to prejudice and acts of bigotry.

  
The University's nondiscrimination policy, in compliance with applicable federal and state law, covers treatment in University programs and activities as well as admission and employment. UCI expects all those affiliated with it to adhere to the letter and the spirit of University nondiscrimination policies and related federal and state laws.

  
Allegations of physical abuse, threats of violence, or conduct that threatens the health or safety of any person on University property or in connection with official University functions will be investigated promptly and, where found to exist, appropriate actions will be taken in accordance with University policy. (See Section 102.08 of the  Policies Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations, and Students. )

  
All who work, live, study, and teach at UCI are here by choice and, as part of that choice, should be committed to these Principles of Community which are an integral part of the guidelines by which the University community can successfully conduct its affairs.

  
 Student Conduct and Discipline 
 
 
Students enrolling in the University are expected to assume an obligation to conduct themselves in a manner compatible with the University's function as an educational institution. A handbook is available which sets forth standards of conduct expected of UCI students.  Policies Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations, and Students  lists rules concerning conduct and related matters, as established by the policies of the Regents and the President of the University and also incorporates campus regulations. Copies are available from the Dean of Students, located in the UCI Student Center, and the University Ombudsman, located in 437 Administration Building.

  
 Academic Honesty 
 
 
 The UCI Academic Senate Policies on Academic Honesty were approved by the Irvine Division on June 2, 1988; revised on December 12, 1996, and on October 12, 2000. 

  
 A. PREAMBLE 
 
 
The University is an institution of learning, research, and scholarship predicated on the existence of an environment of honesty and integrity. As members of the academic community, faculty, students, and administrative officials share responsibility for maintaining this environment. It is essential that all members of the academic community subscribe to the ideal of academic honesty and integrity and accept individual responsibility for their work. Academic dishonesty is unacceptable and will not be tolerated at the University of California, Irvine. Cheating, forgery, dishonest conduct, plagiarism, and collusion in dishonest activities erode the University's educational, research, and social roles. They devalue the learning experience and its legitimacy not only for the perpetrators but for the entire community.

  
 B. RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
 
All members of the academic community have a responsibility to ensure that scholastic honesty is maintained. 

  
Faculty have primary responsibility for:

  
1.	Upholding and enforcing universitywide principles of academic honesty and integrity and explaining clearly these principles including any qualifications which may be operative in the classes they are teaching. 

  
2. 	Minimizing opportunities for academic misconduct in their courses. 

  
3. 	Confronting students suspected of academic dishonesty in a way that respects student privacy.

  
4. 	Affording students accused of academic misconduct the right to appeal any resulting disputes to disinterested parties for hearing and resolution. 

  
5. 	Assigning an appropriate grade to a student who engages in academic dishonesty.

  
6. 	Reporting all instances of academic dishonesty to appropriate Associate Deans.

  
7.	Protecting the anonymity of any student reporting an incident of academic dishonesty to the extent permitted by due process required for the accused and other legal requirements.

  
Students have responsibility for:

  
1.	Refraining from cheating and plagiarism.

  
2.	Refusing to aid or abet any form of academic dishonesty.

  
3. 	Notifying professors and/or appropriate administrative officials about observed incidents of academic misconduct. The anonymity of a student reporting an incident of academic dishonesty will be protected.

  
 C. WHAT IS ACADEMIC DISHONESTY? 
 
 
Academic dishonesty applies equally to electronic media and print, and involves text, images, and ideas. It includes but is not limited to the following examples:

  
 Cheating 

  
1. 	Copying from others during an examination. 

  
2. 	Communicating exam answers with other students during an examination. 

  
3. 	Offering another person's work as one's own.

  
4. 	Taking an examination for another student or having someone take an examination for oneself. 

  
5. 	Sharing answers for a take-home examination or assignment unless specifically authorized by the instructor. 

  
6. 	Tampering with an examination after it has been corrected, then returning it for more credit.

  
7. 	Using unauthorized materials, prepared answers, written notes or information concealed in a blue book or elsewhere during an examination. 

  
8. 	Allowing others to do the research and writing of an assigned paper (including use of the services of a commercial term-paper company).

  
 Dishonest Conduct 

  
1. 	Stealing or attempting to steal an examination or answer key from the instructor.

  
2. 	Changing or attempting to change academic records without proper sanction. 

  
3. 	Submitting substantial portions of the same work for credit in more than one course without consulting all instructors involved. 

  
4. 	Forging add/drop/change cards and other enrollment documents, or altering such documents after signatures have been obtained. 

  
5. 	Intentionally disrupting the educational process in any manner.

  
6. 	Allowing another student to copy off of one's own work during a test.

  
 Plagiarism 

  
Plagiarism is intellectual theft. It means use of the intellectual creations of another without proper attribution. Plagiarism may take two main forms, which are clearly related:

  
1. 	To steal or pass off as one's own the ideas or words, images, or other creative works of another. 

  
2. 	To use a creative production without crediting the source, even if only minimal information is available to identify it for citation.

  
Credit must be given for every direct quotation, for paraphrasing or summarizing a work (in whole, or in part, in one's own words), and for information which is not common knowledge.

  
 Collusion 

  
Any student who knowingly or intentionally helps another student perform any of the above acts of cheating or plagiarism is subject to discipline for academic dishonesty.

  
 D. PROCEDURES FOR DEALING WITH INCIDENTS OF ACADEMIC DISHONESTY 
 
 
Many, perhaps most, incidents of academic dishonesty involve accusations which are based on clear evidence and which are not contested by the accused student. In such cases, if the infraction is relatively minor and there is no indication that the accused student has previously been involved in such incidents, it is most appropriate that the matter be resolved between the student and the faculty member. When this occurs, it is nevertheless important that a written report of the incident be filed to ensure that penalties assessed are commensurate with the offense and that repeated infractions be detected and dealt with appropriately.

  
More serious incidents and repeat offenses which call for stronger disciplinary action, may result in campuswide sanctions, in addition to the actions imposed by a faculty member. In such cases, these sanctions, as described in Section 105.00 of the  Policies Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations, and Students,  will be administered by the Academic Associate Deans or the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Education or Graduate Studies.

  
Finally, whenever an accusation of academic dishonesty or a grade given by a faculty member is contested by an accused student, the student has recourse for mediation of the dispute. Processes for mediation resolution and/or an investigation may be requested by the student or the Associate (Undergraduate or Graduate) Dean of the faculty member's school through the Office of the Ombudsman. In incidents where a campuswide sanction has been imposed, the student can request a hearing with the appropriate Committee on Academic Honesty which will be convened by the Office of either the Dean of Undergraduate Education or the Dean of Graduate Studies, depending on the status of the accused student.

  
The procedures outlined here are designed to institute a system that recognizes that many cases of academic misconduct are best resolved solely between the student and faculty member involved, while it provides for appropriate handling of serious and repeated offenses and guarantees a fair hearing to an accused student.

  
 Authority of Faculty Members 

  
When a faculty member has evidence of student academic dishonesty, the faculty member must present the evidence to the student in a private meeting or communicate with the student by some other means. The faculty member must initiate this communication with the student within 15 calendar days of discovering evidence of academic dishonesty and evaluating the relevant work. The faculty member then has the authority to impose only one or more of the following:

  
1.	Issue a reprimand to the student with letter of explanation to the student's file. 

  
2.	Require repetition of the questionable work or examination with letter of explanation to the student's file.

  
3.	Reduce the grade to an 'F' or zero, if appropriate, on the questionable work or examination with written notification to the student and a letter of explanation to the student's file. 

  
4.	Assign the student a failing grade in the course with letter of explanation to the student's file. 

  
It is essential that any such action be reported in writing to the student in a letter from the faculty member. Copies of this letter must also be sent to (a) the Associate Dean of the faculty member's school, (b) the Associate Dean of the student's school, who will maintain a file of cases of academic misconduct involving students enrolled in that school, and (c) the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Education or Dean of Graduate Studies, as appropriate. The faculty member is strongly encouraged to consult with the Associate (Undergraduate or Graduate) Dean of his or her school before the letter is drafted. Reference to (or a copy of) the UCI Academic Senate Policies on Academic Honesty should be included in the letter. If action (4) is taken, the faculty member is responsible for making certain that the failure is recorded by the Registrar on the student's permanent academic record. Careful documentation of the incident must be maintained by the faculty member in the event that his or her actions in the case should later be subject to review.

  
 Responsibilities of the Academic Associate Deans 

  
1.	The Associate (Graduate or Undergraduate) Dean of either the accused student's school or of the faculty member's school may impose campuswide sanctions. Sanctions imposed by Associate Deans are final unless the student requests a hearing within 15 calendar days of notification. The 15-day period starts from the time the Associate Dean has notified the student of the discipline or has notified the student of the hearing and appeal process by providing a copy of this policy, whichever comes later. It is recommended that each case be brought to a final resolution within 90 days of instruction. 

  
2.	The Associate Dean (or equivalent official) of each school is responsible for maintaining confidential records concerning academic dishonesty of students enrolled in that school. All letters reporting faculty-imposed academic penalties for academic misconduct will be included in these files. 

  
3. 	The Associate Dean of the accused student's school will be responsible for identifying all incidents which represent repeated offenses by a student and may impose a campuswide sanction because of repeat offenses. 

  
4. 	Associate Deans are required to notify the student of the hearing and appeal process and provide the student a copy of this policy. If an Associate Dean suspects grounds for a grievance involving discrimination, the student should be referred to Part 3 of  The Manual of the Irvine Division of the Academic Senate,  "Student Academic Grievance Process" (which is limited to allegations of discrimination). 

  
5. 	In those classes where academic dishonesty continues to be a problem and the faculty member or another university official has already been approached by the student(s) from the class, the Associate Dean will consult with the appropriate faculty member to address the problem.

  
6. 	Students who have on file recorded acts of academic dishonesty, as defined by the  Policies Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations, and Students,  may be excluded by the Associate Deans from consideration for academic honors at graduation.

  
7. 	In those situations where a campuswide sanction is imposed and the student requests a hearing, the Associate Dean will forward to the Committee on Academic Honesty the materials which led him or her to impose the sanction. In addition, the Associate Dean will appear before the Committee to discuss the case upon request of the Committee.

  
 Student Hearings 

  
When any student accused of academic dishonesty wishes to contest a sanction imposed by a faculty member, the student may, within a 15-day period, request mediation by writing to the Associate Dean of the faculty member imposing the sanction or to the Ombudsman. However, it should be understood that all grades are ultimately the responsibility of faculty. The period is 15 calendar days and starts from the time the Associate Dean has notified the student of the discipline or has notified the student of the hearing and appeal process by providing a copy of this policy, whichever comes later.

  
When a campuswide sanction is imposed, the affected student may, within 15 days of notification, request a hearing before the Committee on Academic Honesty. Students considering a hearing in response to campuswide sanctions for alleged academic misconduct are urged to contact the Associate Dean of their academic school and/or the University Ombudsman concerning possible sources of advice and assistance. Students should be advised regarding the grounds for appeal as specified in section 103.11 of the  Policies Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations, and Students .

  
 Role of the Ombudsman 

  
The services of the Ombudsman may be requested at any time by the student, the faculty member, or the Associate Dean. The role of the Ombudsman is to assist in conflict resolution, mediate the dispute, perform an informal investigation of the case, and clarify policies and procedures for anyone involved.

  
In those incidents where imposition of a campuswide sanction is a consideration and the student has requested a hearing, the case will be referred to the Office of the Ombudsman. An investigation may be conducted by the Ombudsman who will then confer with the Associate Dean and the accused student. However, the findings of the Ombudsman will not be forwarded to the Committee on Academic Honesty. The case may be referred by either the student or the Ombudsman to either the Dean of Undergraduate Education or the Dean of Graduate Studies, as appropriate, who will be responsible for convening the Committee on Academic Honesty.

  
Students should always be informed by the Associate Dean of their school of their right to secure the assistance of the Ombudsman in understanding and addressing the problem or issue.

  
 Role of the Deans of Undergraduate Education and Graduate Studies 

  
Whenever an incident of academic misconduct is referred to the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Education or the Dean of Graduate Studies by the student or the Ombudsman, a representative of the appropriate offices will meet with the student and, if requested, explain the process and arrange the time and place of a hearing before the appropriate (Undergraduate or Graduate) Committee on Academic Honesty. The appropriate Dean will maintain a record of all cases of academic dishonesty reported by the respective Associate Deans.

  
Formal resolution by the appropriate Committee on Academic Honesty may result in the imposition by the Dean of Undergraduate Education or the Dean of Graduate Studies of one or more of the sanctions described in section 105.00 of the  Policies Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations, and Students,  including suspension or dismissal from the University.

  
 E. COMMITTEE ON ACADEMIC HONESTY  
 
 
 1. Jurisdiction of the Committees on Academic Honesty 

  
There will be two Committees on Academic Honesty. One Committee will hear cases of campuswide sanctions on undergraduate students while the other will hear graduate student cases. The Committees can reduce, affirm, or increase sanctions.

  
 2. Composition of the Committees on Academic Honesty 

  
The Committees on Academic Honesty will be standing administrative committees composed of two faculty, two students, and a representative of either the Dean of Undergraduate Education or Dean of Graduate Studies, as appropriate. Terms of faculty members will be two years. One faculty member will be appointed annually by either the Dean of Undergraduate Education or Graduate Studies, as appropriate for the particular committee. To ensure continuity, terms will be staggered; during the first year of operation only, one faculty member will be appointed for a one-year term. One additional faculty member will be appointed to serve as an alternate to each of the Committees. The two students shall serve for one year and will be appointed by either ASUCI or AGS as appropriate to the specific committee. One additional student member will be appointed to serve as an alternate to each of the Committees.

  
 3. Role of the Associate Dean 

  
The Associate Dean will forward to the committee the evidence which led to his or her decision to impose the campuswide sanction. In addition, the Associate Dean will appear before the Committee to comment on the case if the Committee wishes.

  
 4. Hearings 

  
a.	If the student requests a hearing, the Dean of Undergraduate Education or the Dean of Graduate Studies shall schedule a hearing of the case before the appropriate Committee. Written notice must be given to the parties involved regarding the date, time, and place of the hearing.

  
b.	The chair will be elected by the membership of the committee. The chair will rule on all questions of procedure, the admission or exclusion of evidence, and the need to call witnesses for additional testimony. Hearings shall be held in accordance with generally accepted standards of procedural due process.

  
c.	Hearings will be closed unless the parties involved agree to an open hearing. Every effort must be made by all parties to maintain confidentiality during the process.

  
d.	Hearings shall be held following the provisions in sections 103.11. (5, 6, and 8) of the  Policy on Student Conduct and Discipline,  except that the role of the Dean of Students shall be filled by the Dean of Undergraduate Education or Graduate Studies, depending on the status of the student.

  
 5. Report of the Committee on Academic Honesty 

  
After the hearing the Committee shall arrive at a decision. When a decision is reached, the student and the appropriate Academic Associate Dean will be informed of the judgment.

  
 6. Final Appeal 

  
If the campuswide sanction is upheld by the Committee, the report of the Committee and all supporting evidence can be sent for a final level of review at the request of the student. If the accused student is an undergraduate, the case will be reviewed by the Dean of Graduate Studies. If the accused student is a graduate student, the case will be reviewed by the Dean of Undergraduate Education. This final review process can only result in decreasing the sanctions imposed on the student or leaving them unchanged. There are no further appeals or processes. 

  
 7. Implementation 

  
Once the judgment has been rendered the Dean of Undergraduate Education or Graduate Studies will implement the judgment in the form of a letter to the student as well as initiate any other necessary administrative actions.

  
 F. MAINTENANCE OF DISCIPLINARY RECORDS 
 
 
Records relating to academic dishonesty will be maintained by the Associate Deans and the Offices of the Deans of Undergraduate Education and Graduate Studies to promote consistency of penalties for a given offense and to ensure appropriate action against repeat offenders. Records will normally be destroyed after five years, unless the Associate Dean determines in any particular case that there is good reason to extend the period of retention. In order to ensure that minor and nonrecurring infractions do not negatively impact a student's career beyond UCI, any student may petition to the Associate Dean of his or her academic school to have relevant academic disciplinary records expunged after the record is two years old or upon graduation, whichever comes first. The Associate Dean has sole authority to consider and to grant or deny such petitions. The University will release a student's disciplinary records to potential employers, governmental agencies, other educational institutions, or other organizations or individuals only if authorized to do so by the student in question or if compelled by law. Any record expunged by the Associate Dean will also be erased in the Dean of Undergraduate Education or Graduate Studies Offices.

  
 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
 
 
This policy is intended to focus solely on issues related to academic dishonesty. Certain details of the implementation of procedures specified here can be found in the UCI publication  Policies Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations, and Students,  available free of charge from the Office of the Ombudsman, Room 437 Administration, and the Office of the Dean of Students, first floor, Student Center.

  
 Anti-Hazing Compliance 
 
 
The State of California and the University of California have expressly and repeatedly asserted their opposition to hazing and preinitiation activities which do not contribute to the positive development and welfare of the individuals involved. In January 1988, the Education Code of the State of California was modified to reflect changes to the State's anti-hazing statute. In accordance with the revised Education Code, students are advised of the following:

  
 Education Code 32050 

  
As used in this article, hazing includes any method of initiation or preinitiation into a student organization or any pastime or amusement engaged in with respect to such an organization which causes, or is likely to cause, bodily danger, physical harm, or personal degradation or disgrace resulting in physical or mental harm, to any student or other person attending any school, community college, college, university, or other educational institutions in this state; but the term "hazing" does not include customary athletic events or other similar contests or competitions.

  
 Education Code 32051 

  
No student, or other person in attendance at any public, private, parochial, or military school, community college, college, or other educational institution, shall conspire to engage in hazing, participate in hazing, or commit any act that causes or is likely to cause bodily danger, physical harm, or personal degradation or disgrace resulting in physical or mental harm to any fellow student or person attending the institution.

  
The violation of this section is a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100), nor more than five thousand dollars ($5,000), or imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one year, or both.

  
 Education Code 32052 

  
Any person who participates in the hazing of another, or any corporation or association which knowingly permits hazing to be conducted by its members or by others subject to its direction or control, shall forfeit any entitlement to State funds, scholarships, or awards which are enjoyed by him, by her, or by it, and shall be deprived of any sanction or approval granted by any public educational institution or agency.

  
Copies of Sections 32050 through 32052 as well as UCI's policies regarding hazing are available from the Office of the Dean of Students, UCI Student Center.

  
 Computer- and Network-Use Policy 
 
 
The University of California, Irvine (UCI) provides computing resources and worldwide network access to members of the UCI electronic community for legitimate academic and administrative pursuits to communicate, access knowledge, and retrieve and disseminate information. All members of the UCI community (faculty, staff, students, and authorized guests) sharing these resources also share the rights and responsibilities for their use. 

  
 Rights and Responsibilities 

  
Worldwide, open-access electronic communication is a privilege and continued access requires that users act responsibly. Users should be able to trust that the products of their intellectual efforts will be safe from violation, destruction, theft, or other abuse. Users sharing computing resources must respect and value the rights and privacy of others, respect the integrity of the systems and related physical resources, and observe all relevant laws, regulations, and contractual obligations. Users are responsible for refraining from acts that waste resources, prevent others from using them, harm resources or information, or abuse other people. To help protect files, users are responsible for setting passwords appropriately and for keeping passwords confidential by not giving them to another person. 

  
Most UCI-owned computers are under the control of a system administrator or lab manager. These administrators are expected to respect the privacy of computer system users. However, UCI computer system administrators may access user files or suspend services on the systems they manage without notice as required to protect the integrity of computer systems or to examine accounts that are suspected of unauthorized use, misuse, or have been corrupted or damaged. This includes temporarily locking vulnerable accounts, removing hung jobs, reprioritizing resource intensive jobs, and such.

  
Many UCI departments have their own computing and networking resources and policies. When accessing computing resources, users are responsible for obeying both the policies described here and the policies of other departments. Student responsibilities are also described in the  Policies Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations, and Students.  In addition, all users are responsible for obeying policies of off-campus network services accessed using UCI resources. 

  
 Examples of Misuse 

  
Examples of misuse include, but are not limited to: 

  
*	Knowingly running or installing on any computer system or network, or giving to another user, a program intended solely for the purpose of damaging or placing excessive load on a computer system or network. This includes, but is not limited to, computer viruses, Trojan horses, worms, bots, flash programs, or password cracking programs. 

  
*	Attempting to circumvent data protection schemes or uncover security loopholes without prior written consent of the system administrator. This includes creating and/or running programs that are designed to identify security loopholes and/or intentionally decrypt secure data. 

  
*	Using computers or electronic mail to act abusively toward others or to provoke a violent reaction, such as stalking, acts of bigotry, threats of violence, or other hostile or intimidating "fighting words." Such words include those terms widely recognized to victimize or stigmatize individuals on the basis of race, ethnicity, religion, sex, sexual orientation, disability, and other protected characteristics. 

  
*	Posting on electronic bulletin boards or Web pages materials that violate the University's codes of conduct (faculty, student). This includes posting information that is slanderous or defamatory in nature or displaying graphically disturbing or sexually harassing images or text in a public computer facility or location that are in view of other individuals. 

  
*	Attempting to monitor or tamper with another user's electronic communications or reading, copying, changing, or deleting another user's files or software without the explicit agreement of the owner. 

  
*	Violating terms of applicable software licensing agreements or copyright laws. 

  
*	Using campus networks to gain, or attempt to gain, unauthorized access to any computer system. 

  
*	Using a computer account or obtaining a password without appropriate authorization. 

  
*	Facilitating or allowing use of a computer account and/or password by an unauthorized person. 

  
*	Masking the identity of an account or machine. This includes sending mail that appears to come from someone else. 

  
*	Performing an act without authorization that will interfere with the normal operation of computers, terminals, peripherals, networks, or will interfere with others' ability to make use of the resources. 

  
*	Using an account for any activity that is commercial in nature not related to work at UCI, such as consulting services, typing services, developing software for sale, advertising products, and/or other commercial enterprises for personal financial gain. 

  
*	Deliberately wasting computing resources, such as playing games (for example, MUDS or IRC) while someone else is waiting to use the computer for UCI-related work, sending chain letters, spamming, treating printers like copy machines, storing or moving large files that could compromise system integrity or preclude other users' right of access to disk storage, and the like.

  
 Consequences of Misuse 

  
Misuse of computing, networking, or information is unacceptable, and users will be held accountable for their conduct. Serious infractions can result in temporary or permanent loss of computing and/or network privileges and/or Federal or State legal prosecution. Appropriate corrective action or discipline may be taken in conformance with applicable personnel policies, student policies, collective bargaining agreements, and procedures established by the Academic Senate. California Penal Code, Section 502 makes certain computer abuses a crime, (such as illegal reproduction of software protected by U. S. copyright law) and penalties can include a fine and/or imprisonment. Files may be subject to search under proper authorization. 

  
Minor infractions of this policy, such as poorly chosen passwords, overloading systems, excessive disk space consumption, are typically handled internally to the department in an informal manner. More serious infractions such as abusive behavior, account invasion or destruction, attempting to circumvent system security, and the like are handled formally through the Office of the Dean of Students or by other appropriate officials. 

  
 Contact Information 

  
For additional information, contact Network &amp; Academic Computing Services (E2130 Engineering Gateway Building) by calling (949) 824-6116, or by sending electronic mail to nacs@uci.edu. 

  
 Student Records 
 
 
The University of California campuses maintain various types of records pertaining to students; some are maintained for academic purposes; others, such as medical records, are maintained for other specific purposes. Student records--that is, those pertaining to students in their capacity as students--include but are not limited to academic evaluations, transcripts, test scores and other academic records, general counseling and advising records, disciplinary records, and financial aid records. At UCI, an "applicant" becomes a "student" at the time of submission of the Statement of Intent to Register form.

  
The disclosure of information from student records is governed in large measure by the Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, by the State of California Education Code, and by University policy and procedures implementing these laws which protect the student's right of privacy, provide safeguards for the confidentiality of student records, and permit students access to their own records.

  
Pursuant to the Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 and the University of California Policies Applying to the Disclosure of Information from Student Records, students at the University have the following five rights:

  
1.	to inspect and review records pertaining to themselves in their capacity as students;

  
2.	to inspect records maintained by the campus of disclosure of personally identifiable information from their student records;

  
3.	to seek correction of their student records through a request to amend the records or a request for a hearing;

  
4.	complaints regarding alleged violation of the rights accorded students by the federal Act may be filed with the Family Policy Compliance Office, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue S.W., Washington, D.C. 20202-4605; World Wide Web: http://www.ed.gov/offices/OM/ fpco/aboutus.html;

  
5.	to have withheld from disclosure, in the absence of their prior consent for release, personally identifiable information from their student records, with exceptions as noted in the University student records policies.

  
NOTE:  There are instances in which information can be disclosed without prior written consent of the student. University officials may require access to student records in the course of the performance of their assigned duties. Further, confidential information can be disclosed without prior written consent of the student (a) in connection with conditions of certain financial aid awards; (b) when the campus is complying with a judicial order or subpoena; and (c) when authorized federal or State officials are conducting an audit or evaluation of federally supported educational programs. There are also other situations in which the University is required to disclose information. See  Policies Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations, and Students  for a list of exceptions. 

  
Normally, the campus  will release  the following as personally identifiable information which can be made public:

  
Student's name;

  
Address (e-mail, local, and/or permanent) and telephone numbers;

  
Date and place of birth;

  
Major field of study, dates of attendance, number of course units in which enrolled, degrees and honors received;

  
Most recent previous educational institution attended;

  
Participation in officially recognized activities, including intercollegiate athletics;

  
Name, weight, and height of participants on intercollegiate University athletic teams.

  
However, students have the right to refuse to permit any or all of these categories to be designated public information with respect to themselves. (See the NOTE above.)

  
If a student requests that information from his or her records not be regarded as public information, then the information will not be released to anyone without the written consent of the student. The student should be aware of the important implications of exercising this right. For example, if a request is made to withhold from disclosure a student's name and degrees and honors received, the campus cannot release for publication information on any honors received by the student, such as election to Phi Beta Kappa, and cannot include the student's name and degree earned in the campus commencement program without the written consent of the student. Similarly, if a request is made to withhold from disclosure a student's name and dates of attendance, a student's status as a student cannot be verified for potential employers without the written consent of the student. Further, if a student's last instruction to the campus was to withhold from disclosure the degree granted to that student and the date on which the degree was conferred, that information cannot be confirmed for a third party in connection with the appointment of that graduate to a new position or in connection with an honor that individual received without the written consent of the student.

  
Students wishing to restrict release of public information should contact the Registrar's Office for instructions on how to do so. Questions regarding the rights of students under the University policies and the federal law should be directed to the University Ombudsman, 437 Administration.

  
It is extremely important for each student to keep the Registrar's Office currently informed as changes to personal data occur to assure that accurate and complete records are maintained.

  
Students are informed annually of their rights under the University's student records policies and the federal Act. Copies of the Act and University and campus policies are available for review in the Reference Room, Main Library. In addition, University policies are published in  Policies Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations, and Students,  copies of which are available in the Office of the Dean of Students and on the World Wide Web at http://www.students.uci.edu/~students/JUDICIAL/uci_policy.html/.

  
Types and locations of major student records maintained by the campus are listed in the following table; consult the Campus Directory or building directories for room numbers.

     Type of Record     Location of Record     Responsible Official     
   School, department, or   Administrative office for   Dean, Chair, or Director    
      program      particular unit          
   Admissions--Under-   Administration   Director, Admissions and    
      graduate            Relations with Schools    
   Admissions--Graduate   Administration   Dean, Graduate Studies    
   Admissions--College of   Med. Sci. I   Director, Admissions    
      Medicine                
   Career Center    Student Services I   Director, Career Center    
   Child Care Services   Early Childhood   Director, Child Care Services    
            Education Center          
   Counseling   Student Services   Director, Counseling Services    
   Dean of Students   Student Center   Dean of Students    
   Disability Services   Disabled Student Center   Director, Disability Services    
   Education Abroad Program   Student Services   Coordinator, EAP    
   Financial Aid   Administration   Director, Financial Aid    
   Financial Services   Administration   Manager, Financial Services    
      (Cashier, Collections)                
   Housing   Housing Administrative   Director, Housing    
            Services          
   International Center   Student Services I   Director, International Center    
   Learning and Academic    Fourth Floor,   Director, Learning and    
      Resource Center   Social Science Tower      Academic Resource Center    
   Ombudsman Services   Administration   University Ombudsman    
   Parking   Public Services Facility   Parking Supervisor    
   Placement Testing Program   Student Services I   Director, Testing, Research,    
                  and Evaluation    
   Registrar--                
      Graduate/Undergraduate   Administration   Registrar    
      College of Medicine   Med. Sci. I   Assistant Deputy Registrar    
   Relations with Schools   Administration   Director, Admissions and     
                  Relations with Schools    
   Student Academic   Student Services   Director, Student Academic    
      Advancement Services            Advancement Services    
   Student Conduct   Student Center   Dean of Students    
   Student Health   Student Health Center   Director, Student Health    
   Summer Session   University Extension   Director, Summer Session    
   Undergraduate Education   Administration   Dean, Undergraduate Education    
   University Extension   University Extension   Dean, Continuing Education    
   Veterans   Student Center   Coordinator, Veterans    
                  Student Services    
   Incidental Records   Administration   Vice Chancellor Student    
      (minutes of various            Affairs, or other Student     
      committees, copies of            Affairs officials    
      correspondence in offices                
      not listed above, and                
      other records not listed    
   
 Click on the "Next" button for continuation of the Appendix. 
 
   
   
 
   
  
 
  
 
  


</body> 