 Python Download and Installation Instructions<body>

 
 Python Download and Installation Instructions 
 
  
  

You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can
  refer to them while downloading and installing Python.
Or, just keep this document in your browser.
You should read each step completely before performing the action that it
  describes.
  
This document shows downloading and installing Python 3.4.3 on Windows 7 in
  Summer 2015.
You should download and install the latest version of Python.
  

   Python: Version 3.4.3 
 

The Python download requires about 24 Mb of disk space; keep it on your machine,
  in case you need to re-install Python.
When installed, Python requires about an additional 50 Mb of disk space.
  
  Downloading 
  
  Click
     
      Python Download .
     
    The following page will appear in your browser.
      
       

   Click the  Download Python 3.4.3  button.
     
    The file named  python-3.4.3.msi  should start downloading into your
      standard download folder.
    This file is about 24 Mb so it might take a while to download fully if you
      are on a slow internet connection (it took me about 10 seconds over a
      cable modem).
      
    The file should appear as
      
       
   Move this file to a more permanent location, so that you can install Python
      (and reinstall it later, if necessary).
 
   Start the  Installing  instructions directly below.
   

   Installing 
  Double-click the icon labeling the file  python-3.4.3.msi .
     
    An  Open File - Security Warning  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
   Click  Run .
     
    A  Python 3.4.3 Setup  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
    Ensure that the  Install for all users  radio button is pressed.

  
   Click  Next &gt;  button.
     

    A new  Python 3.4.3 Setup  pop-up window will appear
    ( Select Destination Directory ).
      
       
      
    Note that if you have installed an earlier version of Python 3.4, the
          following pop-up window will appear.
     
       
    Click the  Yes  button to use the newest installation.
       
    The default directory will appear in the bottom as  C:\Python34\  and
      unless you have a good reason to use another directory, use this one.


  
   Click the  Next &gt;  button.
     

    A new  Python 3.4.3 Setup  pop-up window will appear
    ( Customize Python 3.4.3 ).
      
       
    Use the default customization, which selects the Python Interpreter
      and all its libraries (about 42 Mb).
     

  
   Click the  Next &gt;  button.
     

    In a few seconds a pop-up window titled  User Account Control  will
      appear, posing the question  Do you want the following program to
      install software on this computer? 
      
       
   Click the  Yes  button.
     
    A new  Python 3.4.3 Setup  pop-up window will appear
    ( Install Python 3.4.3 ).
      
       
    During installation, it will show the various operations it is
      performing and a progress bar for each one.
      
      
    It might temporarily pop-up a small window in which to execute commands.
     
        
    Eventually a new  Python 3.4.3 Setup  pop-up window will appear
    ( Complete the Python 3.4.3 Installer ).
      
       
   Click the  Finish  button.
   
Python should now be installed.
To try to verify installation, navigate to the directory
    C:\Python34  (or to whatever directory on which you installed Python)
   double-click the icon/file  python.exe .
The following pop-up window will appear.
      
       
A pop-up window with the title  C:\Python34\python.exe  appears, and inside
  the window on the first line is the text  Python 3.4.3 ... 
  (notice that it should say 32 bit).
Inside the window, at the bottom left, is the prompt  &gt;&gt;&gt; : type
   exit()  to this prompt and press  enter  to terminate Python.
  
You should keep the file  python-3.4.3.msi  somewhere on your computer in
   case you need to reinstall Python (not likely necessary).
  
You may now follow the instructions to download and install Java (if you have
  not already done so), and then the instruction to download and install the
  Eclipse IDE (for Python, Java, or both ).
Note: you you need to download/install Java even if you are using Eclipse only
  for Python)
  
  </body> 