 Introduction to the Irvine Research Unit in Software (IRUS)<body>

 
  

 Research Partnerships 

Fostering research partnerships is an important goal of IRUS. Research
partnerships are relationships typically between an individual company 
and an individual faculty member, focused around a specific project or topic.
 
Partnerships can take many forms, and may have a variety of objectives.
In some cases companies financially sponsor a specific research project 
which is conducted at UCI. In some cases the focus is on transitioning 
technology from UCI to the company, with UCI investigators both helping in
the transition and then working with company to assess the benefits of the 
technology. Other projects may focus on UCI usage of corporate technology, 
either in the context of classroom usage or use in a research project. Still 
others are directed at site visits for information exchange, consulting, or 
arranging summer internships for students. UCI researchers are also 
actively engaged in several key standards bodies, such as the 
 
Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). 
Relationships with UCI researchers involved 
in these groups may be focused on helping to determine appropriate 
strategies to take.
        
IRUS provides forums to help establish these relationships. At technical
roundtable meetings, for instance, companies may become aware of IRUS 
faculty leading research efforts in areas of key concern to the companies. 
IRUS can also arrange briefings at corporate sites to further assist in
identifying avenues for cooperation.
  
The following examples of recent partnerships indicates a few of
the many different relationships between IRUS 
 
corporate sponsors  
and IRUS 
 
faculty members .

  
    
With The Boeing Company we are conducting a longitudinal study of the
introduction of group support technologies throughout the organization. 
This began with a study of the roll out of Exchange and Schedule Plus and 
is continuing with studies of more advanced virtual collocation technologies.

 
    
With Rockwell we are studying the application of design critics to
software requirements engineering. One goal of this project is to modify 
our software design environment to support a specific style of formal 
requirements of interest to Rockwell, called CoRE. The UCI software 
design environment supports designers with "cognitive" features such as
reminding, criticisms, and multiple perspectives.

 
    
With Sun Microsystems we are studying the design and use of group
support technologies within Sun at Bay Area sites. These studies are 
spanning the rollout of Network Computers and HotJava Views within Sun.

 
    
With Hughes we have developed an integrated toolset for specifying and
testing complex software-intensive systems. This toolset combines and 
refines several advanced technologies, including capabilities for specifying 
and reasoning about temporal properties, automated test execution, formal 
behavior verification, and test adequacy measurement.

 
    
With Northrop-Grumman we have investigated the application of
heterogeneous hypermedia technologies to assist with problems of software 
systems evolution.  In particular, hypermedia links are used to help capture 
and access design rationale and traverse the many relationships between 
artifacts produced during software development.
       
 
  UC MICRO Program  
Companies may be particularly interested in the benefits of sponsoring
research projects via the 
 
UC MICRO program. 
Sponsored research is envisioned to lead to the long-term development of 
new products and technologies. A UC faculty investigator, by proposing a 
project of mutual interest to one or more companies, obtains a pledge of a 
cash contribution to support that research over a period of one year. A 
technical proposal containing a project description and research strategy 
is reviewed by experts in industry and academia. Projects of sound technical 
content which lie within the scope of the MICRO program are approved by 
an Executive Committee. The State of California will co-sponsor an approved 
project in two ways: by supplementing the industry contribution with cash, 
and by waiving the customary university overhead applied to research funds.

  Research Emphases and Projects  

To find out more about IRUS research emphases and projects, visit our
 Research  page.



 
  
 Back to the IRUS home page 
   
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science   
University of California, Irvine  
Irvine, CA 92697-3425
 

</body> 