 VHDL Reference Guide - Package Body<body>  This is Google's cache of  http://www.vdlande.com/VHDL/packageb.html . It is a snapshot of the page as it appeared on Aug 11, 2009 15:02:47 GMT. The  current page  could have changed in the meantime.  Learn more     Text-only version  
 These search terms are highlighted:  vhdl  These terms only appear in links pointing to this page:  reference   guide   vdlande       





 
   Package Body  
        Secondary Library Unit 
            Syntax        
  

 
      package body  package_name is
	declarations
	deferred constant declarations
	subprogram bodies
 end  package_name;  
    
  



 
See LRM section 2.6

         Rules and Examples        
  

 
    When a procedure or function is declared in a package, its body (the
algorithm part) must be placed in the package body:
 package REF_PACK is
  procedure PARITY
   (signal X : in bit_vector;
    signal Y : out bit);
end REF_PACK;

package body REF_PACK is
  procedure PARITY
   (signal X : in bit_vector;
    signal Y : out bit) is  
  begin
    -- procedure code
  end PARITY;
end REF_PACK;  
    
  

 
    Other declarations made in a package body may be used within that
body, but are  not  visible outside. declarations may typically be
any of the following:
 type ,  subtype ,
 constant ,  file ,
 alias ,
 attribute ,  function ,
 procedure .
 
    
  

 
    A constant declared in a  package  may be
deferred. This means its value is defined in the package body. The value
may be changed by re-analysing only the package body:
 package P is
  constant C : integer;
end P;

package body P is
  constant C : integer := 200;
end P;  
    
  

 
    A package body cannot be analysed unless a matching package exists
in the same design library. 
    
  

 
    Each package can only have one  body . 
    
  



 
         Synthesis Issues        
  

Package bodies are usually supported by synthesis tools, provided all
the items they declare are compatible with synthesis.
 
A package body must usually be in the same design file as the package
itself.

  
         Whats New in '93        

In  VHDL -93, the keyword  end  may be followed by the
keyword  package body , for clarity and consistancy.

  

  </body> 