 The Geometry Junkyard: Width and Diameter<body>

 
   
 
  
  
Width, Diameter, and Geometric Inequalities
 
   Antipodes .
Jim Propp asks whether the two farthest apart points,
as measured by surface distance, on a symmetric convex body
must be opposite each other on the body.
Apparently this is open even for rectangular boxes.
 
    Centers of maximum matchings .
Andy Fingerhut asks, given a maximum (not minimum) matching of six
points in the Euclidean plane, whether there is a center point
close to all matched edges (within distance a constant times the length
of the edge).  If so, it could be extended to more points via Helly's theorem.
Apparently this is related to communication network design.
I include a response I sent with a proof (of a constant worse than the
one he wanted, but generalizing as well to bipartite matching).
 
    A Counterexample to Borsuk's Conjecture , J. Kahn and G. Kalai,
Bull. AMS 29 (1993).  Partitioning certain high-dimensional polytopes
into pieces with smaller diameter requires a number of pieces
exponential in the dimension.
 
    A fractal beta-skeleton with high dilation .
Beta-skeletons are graphs used, among other applications, in predicting
which pairs of cities should be connected by roads in a road network.
But if you build your road network this way, it may take you a long time
to get from point a to point b.
   
   
    Graham's hexagon , maximizing the ratio of area to diameter.
You'd expect it to be a regular hexagon, right?  Wrong.
From MathSoft's favorite constants pages.
See also
 Wolfgang
Schildbach's java animation  of this hexagon and similar n-gons for larger values of n.
 
    The isoperimetric problem for pinwheel tilings .
In these aperiodic tilings (generated by a substitution system involving
similar triangles) vertices are connected by paths almost as good
as the Euclidean straight-line distance.
 
    The
Kakeya-Besicovitch problem .
Paul Wellin describes this famous
problem of rotating a needle in a planar set of minimal area. As it
turns out the area can be made arbitrarily close to zero. See also 
 Steven Finch's
page on Kakeya-Besicovitch constants , and
 Eric
Weisstein's page on the Kakeya Needle Problem .
 
    Kelvin conjecture counterexample .
Evelyn Sander forwards news about the discovery by Phelan and Weaire
of a better way to partition space
into equal-volume low-surface-area cells.
Kelvin had conjectured that the truncated octahedron provided the optimal
solution, but this turned out not to be true.
See also Ruggero Gabbrielli's  comparison of equal-volume partitions  and
 JavaView
foam models .
 
      
 
    The Margulis Napkin Problem .
Jim Propp asked for a proof that the perimeter of a flat origami
figure must be at most that of the original starting square.
Gregory Sorkin provides a simple example showing that on the contrary,
the perimeter can be arbitrarily large.
 
    Minimax elastic bending energy of sphere eversions .
Rob Kusner, U. Mass. Amherst. 
 
    Minimizing
surface area to volume ratio in a cube .
 
    Moser's Worm .
What is the smallest area shape (in a given class of shapes) that
can cover any unit-length path?
Part of Mathsoft's
 collection of
mathematical constants .
 
    Not. AMS
Cover, Apr. 1995 . This illustration for an article on geometric
tomography depicts objects (a cuboctahedron and warped rhombic
dodecahedron) that disguise themselves as regular tetrahedra
by having the same width function or x-ray image.
 
    A quasi-polynomial bound for the diameter of graphs of polyhedra ,
G. Kalai and D. Kleitman, Bull. AMS 26 (1992).  A famous open conjecture in polyhedral
combinatorics (with applications to e.g. the simplex method in linear
programming) states that any two vertices of an n-face polytope are
linked by a chain of O(n) edges.  This paper gives the weaker bound
O(n log d ).
 
    Reuleaux triangles . These curves of
constant width, formed by combining three circular arcs into an
equilateral triangle, can drill out (most of) a square hole.
 
  
  
 
    Sofa
movers' problem .
This well-known problem asks for the largest area of a two-dimensional
region that can be moved through a hallway with a right-angled bend.
Part of Mathsoft's
 collection of
mathematical constants .
 
    The tea bag problem .
How big a volume can you enclose by two square sheets of paper
joined at the edges?
See also
 the cubical teabag
problem .
 
    Uniqueness of focal points .
A focal point (aka equichord) in a star-shaped curve is a point such that
all chords through the point have the same length.
Noam Elkies asks whether it is possible to have more than one focal point,
and Curtis McMullen discusses a generalization to non-star-shaped curves.
This problem has recently been put to rest by Marek Rychlik.
 
    Universal
coverage constants .
What is the minimum area figure of a given type that covers all
unit-diameter sets?
Part of Mathsoft's
 collection of
mathematical constants .
 
    Volume of a torus .
Paul Kunkel describes a simple and intuitive way of finding the formula for a
torus's volume by relating it to a cylinder.
 
    Worm
in a box . Emo Welzl proves that every curve of length pi can be
contained in a unit area rectangle. 
 
     
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  Send email  if you
know of an appropriate page not listed here.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 