 Rex Chen - UC Irvine - Home Page<body>

 
   
     
           
       Rex Chen 
     
        Home     Publications     Projects     Experiences     Services     Teaching     Personal   

     About Me 
     
         
       
                   	
	I am a graduate from the University of California, Irvine with a PhD degree from the   Networked Systems Program . I am affiliated with the UC Irvine   School of Information and Computer Science   and  UC Irvine   Institute of Transportation Studies .
	I am co-advised by Professor   Amelia Regan   and Professor   Wen-Long Jin .		  
	As an engineer, my industry experiences include   Cisco Systems     and   Qualcomm  .  I also did internships during college years in start-up companies,   Anydata     and   Endeavors Technology .  
	
	  
	I am grateful to meet wonderful mentors in life who have provided invaluable learning capacities and wisdom for me. 
	
	Here are a few quotes that I value highly and live my life with these quotes in mind.
           
	 "Happiness keeps you Sweet," 
	  "Sorrow keeps you Human," 
	  "Failures keep you Humble," 
	  "Success keeps you Glowing." 
	 
	  
     
    
         Research Summary 
     
       
      My broad research interests are in the general field of computer networks with a focus on building routing protocols and network architectures that improve the reliability, security, and performance of future communication systems.        
      Currently, I am interested in Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks (VANET).  VANET has the potential to be an important enhancer for   Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) . Future ITS can lead to significant impact on people's lives and society with lasting effects on safety, economy, and the environment.
      My primary research in VANET include network architecture and design with focus on addressing the reliability and security aspects.  The subject of my PhD dissertation is to leverage and incorporate understanding of traffic flow dynamics to improve broadcast communication and network security in VANET.

      
        

    
     Recent News 
     

        Dec 2010: I have finished my dissertation and defended my oral presentation for the Doctor of Philosophy degree in Networked Systems at UC Irvine. I am interested to continue doing research in vehicular networks and exploring industry opportunities.
		   Short Bio:  
              

		  June 2010: I attended and presented our paper on dynamic transmission range in VANET with stop-and-go traffic at   IEEE Intelligent Vehicles Symposium  in San Diego, California on June 21-24, 2010.  
		 April 2010: Our paper on inter-vehicle communication performance using ns-2 has been accepted to   17th ITS World Congress  in Busan, Korea on October 25-29, 2010.  
		 March 2010: I attended and presented our joint work ("Security and Communication in Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks: Issues and Approaches") at the Industry Seminar on Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments (WAVE) in the   Connected Vehicle Proving Center   (CVPC) building in Dearborn, Michigan on March 11, 2010.  
         Jan 2010: I attended and presented our paper at   IEEE Intelligent Vehicular Communications System  in Las Vegas on Jan 9th, 2010.  
        
        
     Contact Information 

     
        Office: 4th floor, Anteater Instruction and Research Bldg (here is a   picture , it is building # 653 according to UCI    campus map )  
	 Email: rex at uci dot edu  
	  
    
	  
   
 
</body> 