 Postdoctoral Scholars | UCI - Graduate Division 
 
 
  UC Irvine Graduate Division  
 
 

  


 
 

   About Us    Admissions    Funding    Academics    Services    Professional Success  
  

 

   New Students    Current Students    Postdoctoral Scholars    Faculty &amp; Staff    Alumni &amp; Friends    Prospective Students  
  

 
 
   
 



 
	Information for  

   New Students    Current Students    Postdoctoral Scholars    Faculty &amp; Staff    Alumni &amp; Friends    Prospective Students  
  

              

  














 

	
	   
			 Home 
		 
			
					 
								 						Postdoctoral Scho...
 
			 
							
							
	
  

 
 
 
	 
		Postdoctoral Scholars
	 




 
	 "Advancing Research. Creating Solutions. Becoming Leaders." 
 WELCOME POSTDOCS! 
 Postdoctoral scholars are vital members of our academic and research community.  UCI is a campus where postdoctoral scholars are supported in their career development, applauded for their research contributions and encouraged to become leaders in their fields.  Whether you are a current or prospective UCI postdoctoral scholar, please take the time to browse through our website pages to learn about resources available to you.   
   Office of Postdoctoral Affairs- General Information  
  Postdoc Weekly- Upcoming Events and Calendar for Postdoctoral Scholars  
  Postdoctoral Scholar Orientation  
  Career Development  
  Graduate Resource Center  
  Funding Opportunities  
  Employment  
  Libraries  
  Housing  
  Child Care  
  Health &amp; Wellness  
  UCI Postdoctoral Association (PDA)  
  For questions, please contact the Office of Postdoctoral Affairs:  Director,  Celina Mojica, Ph.D.  Coordinator,  Mary Frances Ypma-Wong, Ph.D.  
   
       
   
 
 
  
 

  
         
          
                    
    Facebook  
   Twitter  
   YouTube  
   Instagram  
  
 
   Degree Programs  
  Calendar  
  GRC  
  Graduate Monthly Update  
  Grad Weekly Update  
  Forms  
   Deadlines   
  FIPSE  
  
 
   Contact Us  
  Comments &amp; Questions  
  Privacy &amp; Legal Notice  
  Copyright Inquiries  
  University of California, Irvine  
  
 Graduate Division  120 Aldrich Hall  Irvine, CA 92697-3180  949.824.4611  grad@uci.edu  
   © 2016 UC Regents    
              
        
        
</body> 