 Costs and Financial Aid | MHCID ICS 

	 
		 
			 
					    
					 



					

					



					 
						
      Search for: 
     
    					 


				 
			 
		 





			 Menu 
				 Skip to content 
				    Program 
  
	  About the Program  
	  Curriculum  
	  Capstone Projects  
 
  
  People 
  
	  MHCID Faculty and Staff  
	  Industry Advisory Board  
	  Current Students  
	  Mentors  
 
  
  Admissions 
  
	  Information Sessions  
	  Admissions Overview  
	  Costs and Financial Aid  
 
  
  FAQ  
  
				
				 
								  
                

			 
	 


	 

		 
	 
		   Costs and Financial Aid   	 

	 
		 

							
	 Costs and Financial Aid 
		 
			 The Self-Supporting Graduate Professional Degree Program (SSGPDP) fee for the MHCID students entering in 2017 is $49,500, regardless of your residency. This fee includes  all costs</strong> for the program, except air, ground, or rail transportation required to attend the in person sessions. The MHCID is a one-year program. Fees are subject to change, both before students enroll and during a student’s enrollment. UC Irvine bills for fees each quarter. Fees include course materials (e.g., Adobe Creative Suite, reading materials, and so on) and local travel expenses (e.g., hotels, meals in Orange County) for the accelerated courses. Fees do not include other living expenses, student health insurance, or specific campus-based fees (e.g., student recreation center). Please note that the MHCID is a self-supporting degree program; thus, certain fee waivers traditionally accepted by the University of California may not be accepted. For example, we do not accept Calvet Waivers nor is there a discount for “in-state” students. However, all students will be eligible for financial aid.  http://www.ofas.uci.edu/content/default.aspx  
 Additionally, we will offer a variety of merit-based scholarships, including our “20 for 20” program, which will offer a scholarship in the amount of 20% of total program fees for the top 20% of each admitted cohort. All students who apply for the program will also be considered for scholarships. No supplemental materials are required. 
 Please contact  mhciddirector@ics.uci.edu  for further information. 
              
		 
	 

	 
	 
			
			 


				 
						   
				 

				 
						   
				 


				 
					
					    Feedback  
  Privacy Policy  
  					© 2017 UC Regents
				 

				 

					   
					   


				 

			 

		 

	 

</body> 