 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Articles  


     
  

 
 

  June 10,  2004</strong>  The Orange County Register    Making a name for itself</strong>   By Tamara Chuang and Gary Robbins</strong>    UCI's computer school takes a new identity in honor of the Irvine Co.'s Donald Bren.     A billionaire developer who rarely speaks publicly was honored Wednesday for making a donation that will help people communicate globally. The University of California, Irvine, named a major building and a school after Donald Bren, chairman of the Irvine Co.    Bren also was awarded the University of California's highest honor, the Presidential Medal, during a groundbreaking ceremony for Bren Hall that attracted about 300 people, including several pioneering figures in the world of computing.    The new complex will expand UCI's fast-growing computer school, which was renamed the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. The name change comes seven months after Bren, who says UCI is "the campus closest to my heart," donated $20 million to ICS.    Most of that gift will endow 10 professorships that will be used to recruit star faculty to a program whose professors and alumni already have made major contributions to how people communicate and work via e-mail and the World Wide Web.    The donation builds on Bren's tradition of creating endowed professorships for UCI to use to recruit and retain - and in some cases, simply honor - distinguished scholars. Bren has underwritten 23 professorships at Irvine, representing most of the $42.3 million he has given to the campus throughout two decades.     "ICS is the special link, the technological link, between the 10 schools on campus," the 72-year-old Bren said.     "(Former UCI Chancellor Jack) Peltason convinced me years ago that world-class educators, the teachers, they allow the leadership that is necessary to create the product we talked about 20 years ago."     Bren's donations also will benefit his firm, the Irvine Co., which donated 1,000 acres of pasture land to the University of California in 1960 for the creation of the Irvine campus.     The gift was made in hopes that UCI would become the heart of a master-planned community designed or built by the Irvine Co., which is exactly what happened.    The Newport Beach-based company owns or operates scores of office buildings, shopping centers and apartments in Orange County, many near UCI. The company also manages UCI's University Research Park, which has yet to develop into the research nexus once envisioned by the campus.    Until the mid-1990s, UCI's computer science program was also an underachiever, attracting comparatively little research money.     But in the past five years, ICS' research funding has soared more than five-fold, and the number of students majoring or minoring in information and computer science has more than doubled.    In December 2002, UCI made the department a school, allowing it to operate autonomously.    Campus officials say the program has grown partly because UCI has worked harder to establish or deepen ties to the business community, especially companies such as Newport Beach's Conexant Systems Inc., which makes chips for computer networks. Conexant helped UCI recruit a promising young ICS faculty member last year by giving her $100,000 in research money.    The improvement and growth was acknowledged by U.S. News and World Report magazine in 2002, which ranked Irvine's graduate-level computer science program as 15th among American public universities.    That's not good enough for Debra Richardson, the ICS dean.    "Top 10 in five (years)," Richardson said Wednesday, referring to both the graduate and undergraduate programs. "That's our vision for the Donald Bren Information and Computer Science School."     UCI's engineering school has similar ambitions and has been following a similar plan to get there.    In December 1999, Broadcom founder Henry Samueli was persuaded to donate $20 million to promote engineering, a program that was once so weak at Irvine it nearly was eliminated.     The program - known as the Henry Samueli School of Engineering - is now ranked among the top 50 engineering schools nationally.  Making a name for itself 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 