 charu sirvastava spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Charu Sirvastava spotlight 

 
 

  A Thirst for Knowledge </strong>
 
 
  Charu Srivastava  
 
 
 After graduating with a degree in computer engineering from the National Institute of Technology, Allahabad India in 2006, Charu Srivastava worked as an IT consultant in India and Spain. 
  While the work was rewarding, Charu had a thirst for knowledge that could only be quenched by returning to school for an advanced degree. 
 After talking to Bren School professor Alex Nicolau, Charu learned about the  Master of Science in Information and Computer Science with a concentration in Embedded Systems  offered by the Bren School. 
 The program provides students the unique opportunity to study for two five-week sessions in the United States at UC Irvine during the summer and for three quarters at the  Istituto di Cibernetica Eduardo Caianiello  in Naples, Italy. 
 “My family put in resources and energy into giving me the best education all my life. It was my Dad’s vision to see me graduate from an American University," Charu said. "I chose UC Irvine because I wanted to be a part of the University of California. The innovation, research and the great exposure in the field of technology I got as a student while studying here, is phenomenal. I am living my father’s dream and it makes me and my family very happy.” 
 In addition to courses, students work on embedded system research projects as part of their thesis and can obtain a Master’s degree in as little as 15 months.  
 “Coming back to university was very refreshing,” Charu said. “The freedom of thought, the thirst for knowledge, the drive to conduct research with commitment and self motivation were things I learned from my fellow students and faculty in this program.” 
 The research Charu is conducting for her thesis focuses on trying to analyze the virtual machine on embedded devices. 
 “The web browsers on mobile phones or PDA's are not very efficient, they can use more improvement,” Charu said. “I’m analyzing the factors that can give the user an internet browsing experience on their mobile device similar to the one they experience on their desktop.” 
  SEAMLESS TRANSITION</strong> 
 Charu found the transition to life in the United States was seamless. 
 “I didn’t feel like an outsider at all,” Charu said. “I felt very much part of UCI.” 
 Charu lives in  Arroyo Vista , an on campus housing community that features 40 houses, each with 8, 12, or 16 bedrooms and a large shared kitchen and living/dining areas.  
 “The housing is very nice and my roommates are great people too,” Charu said. “The accommodation is very comfortable.” 
 
 Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.
 
 Charu especially enjoys relaxing at the Starbucks in the UC Irvine student center and taking dancing classes, playing racquetball, swimming, and rock climbing at the Anteater Recreation Center, a 89,000 square foot facility that includes a 10,000 square foot weight room, aerobics and martial arts rooms, three court gymnasium with an elevated running track, one court rounded gym, outdoor lap and leisure pool, a rock climbing wall, and three racquetball courts. 
 Despite the amenities and laid back living, Charu still misses the food and sights she experienced in Italy.  
  LOOKING TO THE FUTURE</strong> 
 On track to graduate in December of 2008, Charu would like to join a company in the United States that works on embedded systems solutions and feels that her education has prepared her well for any career path related to computer science. 
 “This program has prepared me to face the challenges of technologies in any company related to Computer Science.” Charu said.  
 Despite the intense commitment of resources and time, Charu remarks that her time in the Master’s program is one of the most memorable of her life and would recommend the program to anyone else considering pursuing a Master’s degree in embedded systems.  
 “I think for anyone who is even the least bit interested in technology and is curious of the world should enroll to spend at least one year in an MS program,” Charu said. “It opens whole new domains, exposes you to a lot of aspects of the field and brings a level of maturity to your knowledge of the field. It makes one appreciate the works of people in the past and motivates you to contribute something for the future.” 
  - Eric Kowalik  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 