 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
Publications with
 
Kevin Wortman
 
 
   Minimum dilation stars.  
D. Eppstein and
 K. Wortman .  arXiv:cs.CG/0412025 .  21st ACM Symp. Comp. Geom.,  Pisa, 2005, pp. 321–326.   Comp. Geom. Theory &amp; Applications  37 (1): 27–37, 2007 .
 
We show how to test the dilation of a star, embedded in a Euclidean
space of bounded dimension, in time O(n log n),
and how to find the star center that has the minimum dilation for
a given set of leaf points in randomized expected time
O(n log n).
For two-dimensional points, we can find the minimum dilation center,
constrained to be one of the input points, in time
O(n 2 α(n)  log 2 n).
The unconstrained center placement algorithm involves
 quasiconvex programming , and is used
as a subroutine in the constrained center placement algorithm.
  
( SoCG05 talk slides  --
 Citations  --
 BibTeX )
  
    Approximate weighted farthest neighbors and minimum dilation stars.   J. Augustine ,
D. Eppstein, and
 K. Wortman .  arXiv:cs.CG/0602029 .  Proc. 16th Annual International Computing and Combinatorics Conference
(COCOON 2010) , Nha Trang, Vietnam.  Springer,  Lecture Notes in
Comp. Sci.  6196, 2010, pp. 90–99 .   Discrete
Mathematics, Algorithms and Applications  2 (4): 553–565, 2010 .
 
The problem is to quickly find, in a set of sites with weights, the site
maximizing the product of its weight with its distance from the query
point. Our solution combines known results on core-sets with a reduction
from the weighted to the unweighted problem that works in any metric
space. This leads to fast approximation algorithms for the constrained
minimum dilation star problem in any fixed dimension.
  
    Dilation, smoothed distance, and minimization diagrams of
convex functions .  M. Dickerson ,
D. Eppstein, and
 K. Wortman .  arXiv:0812.0607 .   7th Int. Symp. Voronoi Diagrams in Science and Engineering (ISVD
2010) , Quebec City, Canada, pp. 13–22 .
 
Investigates Voronoi diagrams for a "smoothed distance" in which the
distance between two points p and q is inversely weighted by the
perimeter of triangle opq for a fixed point o, its relation to dilation
of star networks centered at o, and its generalization to minimization
diagrams of certain convex functions. When the function to be minimized
is suitably well-behaved, its level sets form pseudocircles, the
bisectors of the minimization diagram form pseudoline arrangements, and
the diagram itself has linear complexity.
  
    Optimal embedding into star metrics . 
D. Eppstein and
 K. Wortman .  arXiv:0905.0283 . 
Algorithms and Data Structures Symposium (WADS), Banff, Canada (best
paper award). 
Springer,  Lecture Notes in Comp. Sci.  5664, 2009, pp. 290–301.
 
We provide an O(n 3  log 2 n) algorithm for
finding a non-distance-decreasing mapping from a given metric into a
star metric with as small a dilation as possible. The main idea is to
reduce the problem to one of parametric shortest paths in an auxiliary graph.
Specifically, we transform the problem into the parametric negative cycle
detection problem: given a graph in which the edge weights are linear
functions of a parameter λ, find the minimum value of λ
for which the graph contains no negative cycles. We find a new strongly
polynomial time algorithm for this problem, and use it to solve the star
metric embedding problem.
  
( Slides )
  
    Optimal angular resolution for face-symmetric drawings . 
D. Eppstein and
 K. Wortman .  arXiv:0907.5474 .   J. Graph
Algorithms and Applications  15 (4): 551–564, 2011 .
 
We consider drawings of planar partial cubes in which all interior faces are
centrally symmetric convex polygons, as in my previous
paper  Algorithms for Drawing Media . Among all
drawings of this type, we show how to find the one with optimal angular
resolution. The solution involves a transformation from the problem
into the parametric negative cycle detection problem: given a graph in
which the edge weights are linear functions of a parameter λ,
find the minimum value of λ for which the graph contains no
negative cycles.
  
     
 Co-authors  --
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 