 user.websites.chimera2.concepts.anchors<body>

     Local Site Map 
   Overview  
  Viewers  
  Objects      Views  
  Anchors  
  Links      Attributes  
  Clients  
  Hyperwebs     

     

  Anchors  

 Anchors are the logical end-points of  links .
 Viewers  must map these conceptual entities into
concrete elements within their  views . Anchors are
thus  regions of interest  within a view which are, typically, selectable
or active in some fashion. Anchors are important since they are the "raw
matieral" for creating links. Users author links by grouping related
anchors together. 

     

 As shown above, anchors can be either  view-specific  or  view-independent .
The former implies that only the viewer which created the anchor can successfully
reproduce the intended display of the anchor. The latter are assumed to
follow a standardized format such that any viewer which supports the relevant
MIME type can easily display the anchor as intended. As such, a viewer must
be sure to follow the convention of storing the anchors they create in the
appropriate place; view-specific anchors are associated with a view, while
view-independent anchors are associated with the view's object. 

 Developer Information 

 The available operations on anchors are listed below. For more information
see the  on-line documentation . 

       anchorExists(anchor)  
 Checks to see if the specified anchor exists in the active hyperweb.     deleteAnchor(anchor)  
 Deletes the specified anchor in the active hyperweb. Chimera's proactive
approach to hyperweb consistency ensures that the anchor is removed from
any links which contain it before it is deleted.     getAnchors()  
 Returns all of the viewers for the active hyperweb.     getObject(anchor)  
 Retrieves the object associated with this view-independent anchor. If this
anchor is view-specific, then this routine returns null.     getView(anchor)  
 Retrieves the view associated with this view-specific anchor. If this anchor
is view-independent, then this routine returns null.     numberOfAnchors()  
 Returns the number of anchors contained in the active hyperweb.     traverseLinks(anchor)  
 Initiates a link traversal on all links which contain the specified anchor.     traverseTo(anchor)  
 Initiates a traversal  to  the specified anchor. This operation can
be used when a viewer wants to travel to some pre-defined location in the
hyperweb.     viewSpecific(anchor)  
 Returns  TRUE  if the specified anchor is view-specific.    

      Local Site Map 
   Overview  
  Viewers  
  Objects      Views  
  Anchors  
  Links      Attributes  
  Clients  
  Hyperwebs     

  This page is part of the  Chimera 
web site. 
Send feedback and questions to  Ken
Anderson . 
 </body> 