 Arcadia Collected Papers: ABSTRACT<body>
  
Arcadia Papers: ABSTRACT 
  
" Graph Models for Reachability Analysis of Concurrent Programs " ,
by Mauro Pezz`e, Richard N. Taylor, and Michal Young in
Technical Report TR-92-27, Department of Information and Computer Science,
University of California, Irvine CA 92171-3425, January 1992.


  Abstract  


The problem of analyzing concurrent systems has been investigated by many 
researchers and several solutions have been proposed. Among the proposed 
techniques, reachability analysis --- systematic enumeration of reachable 
states in a finite-state model --- is attractive because it is conceptually 
simple and relatively straightforward to automate, and can be used in
conjunction with model-checking procedures to check for application-specific 
as well as general properties. 

 

One thread of research related to reachability analysis involves extracting 
models from program texts. This paper shows that the nature of the translation 
from source code to a modeling formalism is of greater practical importance 
than the underlying formalism. (With respect to the underlying formalisms 
we present algorithms for translating Taylor's reduced flowgraph model and 
Long and Clarke's task interaction graph model into a common labeled
flowgraph formalism, and for translating labeled flowgraphs into Petri 
nets, while preserving the reachability graph structure.) 

  

Features identified as pragmatically important are the representation of 
internal choice, selection of a dynamic or static matching rule, and the 
ease of applying reductions. Since combinatorial explosion is the primary 
impediment to application of reachability analysis, a particular concern 
in choosing a model is facilitating divide-and-conquer analysis of large
programs. Recently, much interest in finite-state verification systems 
has centered on algebraic theories of concurrency. Algebraic structure 
can be used to decompose reachability analysis based on a flowgraph model. 
The semantic equivalence of graph and Petri net based models suggests 
that one ought to be able to apply a similar strategy for decomposing Petri
nets. We show this is indeed possible through application of category theory. 

   Abstract  


  
 The Arcadia Project
&lt;arcadia-www@ics.uci.edu&gt;  
Last modified: Thu Jan 27 13:36:13 1995
 
</body> 