 Troubleshooting Java/Eclipse/Python Installation<body>

 
 Troubleshooting Java/Eclipse/Python Installation 
 
  
  
This is the first quarter large numbers of students are installing Java,
  Python, and Eclipse.
As I hear about problems and find workarounds, I will add them here, in the
  appropriate sections.
Note that these workarounds are not guaranteed, but they have worked in some
  circumstances.
  
   Running Eclipse 
   Problem : Eclipse cannot run and prints the error message:  "Version 1.6.0_65 of the JVM is not suitable for this product. Version: 1.7 or greater is required." 
 
 Workaround : Go the the following 
 Java Website  and download an install the  Mac OS X x64 
sofware: the download is named  jdk-6u67-macosx-x64.dmg  which shows as
about 186 MB.
After doing this, if you still get the same error message when starting Eclipse,
  delete Eclipse, redownload it, and reinstall it.
  
    Problem : Eclipse cannot locate the JRE.
The following error message will appear when Eclipse starts.
 
   
 Workaround : You need to manually set the  PATH  system variable
      to include the location of your JRE.
    Normally Eclipse does this automatically.
    Before following the instructions below, find the directory that contains
       Java .
  
   Click the  Start  button
  Click  Control Panel  entry (on the upper right)
  Click the  System  text/icon (near the end: they are alphabetical)
  Click the  Advance System Settings  shield (upper left)
  On the  System Properties  pop-up window select the  Advanced  tab
      (it is probably already selected) and click the
       Environmental Variables...  button.
  In the  Environmental Variables  pop-up window select  PATH 
      under  Variable  in the top pane (it is probably already selected)
      and click the  Edit  for that pane.
  In the  Edit User Variable  pop-up window, the  Variable name: 
      text box should show  PATH  and the  Variable value:  text
      box should show the current value of  PATH , which may be too big
      to fit on the screen.
  Put the cursor at the end of the   Variable value:  text box and
      type a semicolon and the path to the  bin  folder in the  jre7 
      folder in the  Java  folder you found.
  Click the various  OK  buttons in the 3 pop-up windows.
  
In the picture below, my  PATH  variables started with
   C:\Program files  so I added at the end
   ;C:\Program Files (x86)\Java\jre7\bin  which is where I installed Java.
 
   
Try running Eclipse again and see if you get the same error message; if you do,
   try rebooting and running Eclipse again.
  
    Problem : Eclipse cannot locate the JNI shared library.
The following error message will appear when Eclipse starts.
 
   
 Workaround : I've been told this is often caused by installing
   incompatible version of Java and Eclipse: specifically a 32-bit version
   of one and a 64-bit version of the other.
Go back and follow the instructions for downloading and installing Java and
  Eclispe (heck, do it for Python too), ensuring you are using the 32-bit
  versions of both.
   </body> 