 Final Exam Details<body>
 ICS 31 • Fall 2016 • David G. Kay  •
UC Irvine 
   Final Exam Details   
 As originally scheduled and announced on the
syllabus, our final exam will be in our regular classrooms on Tuesday, 

December 6:
for the 8:00 lecture, room PSLH 100 from 8:00 to 10:00 a.m.;
for the 11:00 lecture, room HIB 100 from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
  The final will cover the whole
course.

 You may bring with you to the exam one page
of notes (8 1/2 by 11 inches, both sides), on which you may place any information
you think will help you on the exam.  Computer-printed pages are fine.  You should bring a pen or pencil. And do bring your student photo ID.  You may not bring any electronic devices.  You do not need a bluebook or Scantron form. 
 
 Here are some review strategies:  
   One excellent way to review, as we've mentioned
    before, is to go back and retake the  quizzes and midterms .
    They're all available on line.  Don't just glance over the problems and solutions and say to yourself, "Yeah, that looks right." Make copies without the answers, sit down with a pencil, and actually write out your own answers to each problem. It's the active work that leads to learning.  
    You should also
    go back, read, and make sure you can do all the problems from the   lab assignments , especially any problems where you let your partner take the lead and didn't insist on understanding all the aspects of the solution. As time permits, actually code up some of the solutions to those problems.  
   
     Additional opportunities for coding practice are available at  codingbat.com/python ; most of these problems are about the same size as exam questions might be.  You can also use  pythontutor.com  to visualize exactly what's happening in memory as you execute your code. 
   The above review activities are all active and thus likely to be the most productive. You could also go back and re-read the Emailed course notes, the comments that sometimes appear with the answers to the quizzes, the instructors' answers to questions on Piazza, the assigned sections of the textbook, and selected UCI Replay recordings of the lectures. 
  
   We will have a review session on Monday, December 5, from noon to 2:00. Because it's hard to find a big room free early in exam week, we'll hold the session virtually, on Piazza.   
  
  
  The review session will consist of my answering as many questions as there's time for.  The ideal strategy for you would be, before the review
  session, to go through all the materials suggested on this page  so the session can focus on your unresolved questions.   Log in to Piazza at the appointed time, check out what has already been asked, and ask your questions. From past experience, this works out quite well. 

  As on the  midterms, we expect
to neutralize any advantage the 
10:30 people might have from talking
to the 8:00 people by having different
versions of the exam and by sending
out in advance a question-by-question synopsis of the exam
so that everybody knows in advance
just about the same information as
might be transmitted in an 8:00/10:30
conversation.  That said, it is still
academically dishonest for 8:00
people to say anything about the
exam to 10:30 people (until the
10:30 exam is over at 12:30;
at that point, it's fine to discuss it).  
  
  We also recommend a good night's sleep before the exam.  
 Good luck!
  
 
   David G. Kay ,  kay@uci.edu      
Sunday, November 27, 2016 7:58 AM
  
</body> 