 undergraduate minor in statistics @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  Degrees  


     
 Undergraduate minor in Statistics 

 
 

  DEGREES AVAILABLE: Minor</strong> 
 The Department of Statistics offers lower-division undergraduate courses designed to introduce students to the field of statistics (Statistics 7, 8, 67) and upper-division undergraduate courses on the theoretical foundations of probability and statistics (Statistics 120A-B-C, 121) and statistical methodology (Statistics 110-111-112).  
 The Department is in the process of planning an undergraduate degree program in Statistics. In the interim, students interested in focusing on statistics are encouraged to consider a minor in Statistics along with a major in a field of interest.  
    ›  Is the Statistics minor for me?  
			    ›  What do I take?  
			    ›  What can I do with this minor?       
      
 Is the Statistics minor for me?  
 Statistics is  the field associated with the collection, analysis, and interpretation of data.  Statistical theory and methods are relevant in a wide range of fields in the social, physical, and biological sciences, as well as in a range of practical areas like public policy, education, engineering and medicine.   The minor in Statistics is designed to provide students with exposure to both statistical theory and practice. 
 The minor requires a total of seven courses. These include a mathematics course, five core statistics courses, and an elective that may be taken from among several departments.  Some of the courses used to complete the minor may include prerequisites that may or may not be part of a student's course requirements for their major. Because of this the minor is somewhat intensive, but it is a useful complement to a variety of undergraduate fields for mathematically inclined students. 
 The minor, supplemented with a few additional courses (mathematics and computing), would provide sufficient background for graduate study in statistics. Students considering a minor in Statistics should meet with the Director of Undergraduate Studies in Statistics as early as possible to plan their course work. 
   NOTE: Students may not receive both a minor in Statistics and a specialization in Statistics within the Mathematics major.</strong>  
  ↑ Back to top  
  
 What do I take? 
 See the  General Catalogue  for a full listing of the Statistics minor requirements. 
 ↑ Back to top   
                    
 What can I do with this minor?  
  The Statistics minor will add a statistical perspective to a student's major field of study.  The statistical perspective emphasizes the important role that uncertainty and variation play in understanding the world around us.    
 A student's  enhanced quantitative reasoning skills will be useful in any future career path -- this includes study towards a professional degree (e.g., law or medicine), graduate study in  a field of interest, or a position in industry or government.  
  Students who complete the minor requirements will be able to: </strong>
			  
			   
  recognize the important role of uncertainty and variability in
                empirical studies of real world phenomenon 
 employ basic statistical methods to analyze and explore data 
 understand the theoretical underpinnings of basic statistical methods 
  ↑ Back to top  
  


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 