 SPIN Flyer<body> 
 

 

  University of California at Irvine

  Irvine Research Unit in Software 
(IRUS)   
is proud to sponsor the 

 

   Software Process 
Improvement Network (SPIN)  


 
Cost, Schedule and Quality Modeling
 

 


   Friday, June 25, 1999   

9:00 a.m. - 12:00 noon 
McDonnell Douglas Auditorium 
University of California, Irvine  

There is a $15.00 charge for non-sponsors.  
Checks should be made payable to  UC Regents</strong>.

  

 No reservations required.      

  

 


 

 
 
 Recent Advances in Constructive Cost, Schedule and Quality Modeling  
Barry Boehm, TRW Professor of Computer Science and Director, 
   
Center for Software Engineering , 
Univ. of Southern California,
 
Boehm@sunset.usc.edu 
   

   
In the last two years there have been significant improvements in the
breadth,
depth and accuracy of the public, open Constructive Cost Model, COCOMO.
Following an explanation of the underlying COCOMO model concepts and
their
rationale, Dr. Boehm will explain where and how the models are evolving
and
expanding into the COCOMO Suite.  He will explain how both the accuracy
and the
applicability of the model have increased recently.
  

 
  COQUALMO--Constructive Quality Model 
Sunita Chulani, Sr. Software Engineering Specialist, 
 
Rational Software Corporation ,    
Sdevnani@sunset.usc.edu 
  
 
   
 
Software estimation models can play an important role in facilitating
the
balance of the three factors of Cost, Schedule and Quality. COQUALMO is
an
estimation model focusing on quality, but its ties to COCOMO II
provide
estimation models in the other two areas. Dr. Chulani will present the 
model and the initial results to date.
  
 
  CORADMO--Constructive RAD/Schedule Model  
A. Winsor Brown, Assistant Director, 
 
Center for Software Engineering , 
 
AWBrown@sunset.usc.edu 
 
 
   

Many generic RAD techniques are applied to reduce schedule, sometimes
with an
accompanying increase in total effort.  One of the bases for this model
came
from a behavioral analysis of a set of RAD drivers suggested by a CSE
Workshop
on RAD.  Another component of the model comes from a staged schedule and
effort
distribution model based on Dr. Boehm's "Anchor Points" and the Rational
Unified Process model. The conceptual model has been implemented in a
spreadsheet that is linked to the output of COCOMO-II.1999. 
  

 
  COCOTS--Constructive COTS Model   - 
 
(PDF)  
Christopher M. Abts, Graduate Research Assistant, 
 
Center for Software Engineering ,  School of Engineering, University of Southern California,
 
Cabts@sunset.usc.edu 
  
 
  
Off-the-shelf software integration cost modeling focuses on estimating
the
cost, effort, and schedule associated with using commercial
off-the-shelf
(COTS) components in a software development project. Though still
experimental,
COCOTS is a model complementary to COCOMO II, capturing costs that
traditionally have been outside the scope of COCOMO:  (1) candidate COTS
component assessment, (2) COTS component tailoring, (3) the development
and
testing of any integration or "glue" code needed to plug a COTS
component into
a larger system, and (4) increased system level programming due to
volatility
in incorporated COTS components. COCOTS is envisioned as working in
concert
with COCOMO II to provide a complete software development cost estimation
solution.
  
 
  COPROMO--Constructive Productivity-Improvement Model  
Barry Boehm, TRW Professor of Computer Science and Director, 
 
  Center for Software Engineering  , 
Univ. of Southern California,
 
Boehm@sunset.usc.edu 
 
 
  
Constructive Productivity-Improvement Model (COPROMO) is a Software
Engineering
Senior Management strategic planning decision assistant model.  It is
supported
by an implementation approach.  The model is based on the use of COCOMO
II and
CORADMO as valuation mechanisms.  The implementation approach uses a
representative application from the domain of concern to the senior
management,
and the identification of "technology" drivers and time frames.  Also, a
technology impact evaluation tool exists; one version of the tool has
been
implemented and used in the evaluation of the Knowledge Based Software
Assistant. 

  

 Biographies: </strong>
  Dr. Barry Boehm.  
Between 1989 and 1992, Barry Boehm served within the U.S. Department of
Defense
(DoD) as Director of the DARPA Information Science and Technology
Office, and
as Director of the DDR&amp;E Software and Computer Technology Office.  He
worked at
TRW from 1973 to 1989, culminating as Chief Scientist of the Defense
Systems
Group.  Other positions include Rand Corporation culminating as head of
the
Information Sciences Department and General Dynamics.
  
        His current research interests focus on integrating a software
system's
process models, product models, property models, and success models via
an
approach called MBASE (Model-Based Architecting and Software
Engineering).  His
contributions to the field include the Constructive Cost Model (COCOMO),
the
Spiral Model of the software process, and the Theory W (win-win)
approach to
software management and requirements determination.

  
 A. Winsor Brown. 
Following a BES from RPI and an MSEE from CalTech, Winsor has over 25
years of
experience in software development, engineering and management; it was
gained
in aerospace, industrial and commercial applications.
   
 Sunita Chulani. 
Sunita Chulani got her BE in CE from Bombay University and
an MS and Ph.D. in CS 
                from USC. Her interests include statistical software
process
improvement, estimation and 
                modeling, software metrics and risk management.
   
 Christopher Abts. 
Chris Abts has a BSIE from Georgia Tech and an MSISE from USC. He spent
ten
years in industry, working as a lead systems engineer/analyst for
Logicon, Inc.
   

 
 Coordinator: </strong>A. Winsor Brown,
 USC/CSE , 
 awbrown@sunset.usc.edu 
 

  

 
UCI Maps and Directions  to meeting are available.
  


 Next Meeting: </strong>  

  
Date: July 30, 1999 
Topic: 
Acquisition Best Practices - Issues and Experience 
 
Speaker: Donald J. Reifer, Reifer Consultants, Inc. 
 
Coordinator: A. Winsor Brown, University of Southern California,
 awbrown@sunset.usc.edu 
 

 

The Irvine Research Unit in Software wishes to thank its 
 corporate sponsors :

  

 Sustaining:</strong>
  
The Boeing Company * IBM * Microsoft Corporation * Northrop Grumman Corporation
 Raytheon Company * Sun Microsystems * TRW 

 

 Supporting:</strong>
  
    Beckman Coulter * FileNet Corporation * Printronix, Inc. 
    Continuus Software Corporation * Hewlett Packard
 

 

For further information on 
 SPIN  or 
 IRUS,    contact  Debra Brodbeck 
at (949) 824-2260, 
 brodbeck@ics.uci.edu 
 

     
  
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science  
University of California, Irvine  CA 92697-3425   
</body> 