 Finals bound @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Finals bound 

 
 

 
 UCI team takes second place in regional ACM competition, invited to finals in 
Russia next June</strong>
 





 
   
  From front to back: Nick Alajat, Alan Castro and Michael Cappe 
 





 
Three undergraduate students from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences have earned a spot in the finals of the Association for Computing Machinery’s 
 International Collegiate Programming Contest .
 
 
The UCI Constructors team, consisting of students  Michael Cappe ,  Nick Ajalat  and  Alan Castro,  and sponsored by computer science senior lecturer  Richard Pattis , took second place in the ICPC’s Southern California Regional on Nov. 9. They competed in a field of 91 teams from 31 colleges and universities from Southern California and Las Vegas to earn the honor. They are among only 120 teams invited to compete at the ICPC World Finals, which will be held in Ekaterinburg, Russia, in June 2014.  
 “ For the first time in my memory, UCI's teams started seriously studying and practicing for this contest, so I expected our standings to improve, but I was bowled over by a second-place finish,” Pattis said. “These students did an extraordinary job.”  
 
Now in its 38th year, the ICPC attracts computer science students from around the globe. This time, nearly 30,000 contestants from more than 2,300 universities in 91 countries competed in regional competitions at some 300 sites worldwide. According to the ICPC world finals  fact sheet , "The contest fosters creativity, teamwork, and innovation in building new software programs, and enables students to test their ability to perform under pressure. Quite simply, it is the oldest, largest, and most prestigious programming contest in the world." 
  
   — Story by Ted B. Kissell  
   — Photo courtesy of ACM UC Irvine Chapter
 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 