 AdventureEcologyGame-NewsStory-Oct06<body>

 Just Push Play 
 
An eco-themed video game is helping the PlayStation generation understand global warming.  By Deborah Snoonian  
(Source: http://plentymag.com/features/2006/09/just_push_play.php )   “Here’s
the deal: Adults are not doing enough to protect our planet. In fact,
some of our worst problems are being caused by people! It’s time for
kids like us to step in!” And with a wave of his arm, Dash, the
animated action hero of  Adventure Ecology ,
invites gamers to join him and his raven-haired sidekick Bay as they
battle adversaries like Agent Waste, Professor Ignorance, and Miss Lies
in their quest to halt pollution and defeat the ultimate enemy: the
mighty, sharp-clawed Global Warming. 



     SUPERHEROES: 
Bay and Dash take gamers on virtual missions to defeat eco-threats and
halt pollution (Illustrations courtesy of Free Range Graphics)  


							
 Developed
to teach Australian and U.K. students about environmental issues,
Adventure Ecology is one example of a growing field of “serious” video
games that raise awareness about issues like poverty and international
strife, and help players assess strategies for solving them. “Video
games are a mainstream form of media—they’re not just for teenage boys
in basements anymore,” says Benjamin Stokes, cofounder of Games for
Change, a nonprofit group that provides support to developers of
serious games. “For the environmental movement, it makes perfect sense
to use a video game as an educational tool.” 

 Playing vids might
even be the best way to learn about this sprawling thing we call “the
environment”—a highly complex and interdependent system in which every
life-form, air molecule, and pebble plays a part. “It’s tough to teach
interdependencies using linear media like books,” Stokes says. “But
games, by their nature, are interactive systems. Our choices have
consequences, like they do in real life.” 



     FORCES OF EVIL:  The dreaded Global Warming ( 1 ) is aided by a gang of supporting foes ( 2 )
(left, from left to right): Professor Ignorance, Mr. Lazy, Chairman Greed, General Fear, and Agent Waste.   



 Which leads to Adventure Ecology, where students ages nine and up
embark on virtual missions instead of listening to rote lesson plans.
Before starting the game, each player takes a test that assesses her
learning style; the game is then tailored to her strengths (visual
learners encounter more graphics, while wordsmiths get scrolling text).
Activities may include preventing deforestation, scoping out
alternative fuel strategies, or convincing a clothing company to sell
eco-friendly duds. As they play, gamers take quizzes to demonstrate
their grasp of important concepts, accumulating points that let them
take on new missions with bigger challenges.  

 The game is the
brainchild of British adventurist David de Rothschild, who earlier this
year traversed the North Pole to raise awareness about the effects of
global warming on the Arctic. In fall 2005, just a few months before
his trip began, he tapped the D.C. ad agency Free Range Graphics to
create a video game based on his travels, with the idea that schoolkids
could play the game and track his real Arctic expedition at the same
time. “We squeezed about a year’s worth of work [to develop the game]
into three months,” recalls Andrew Courtney, interactive director of
Free Range Graphics [see page 64 in issue 12 for a profile of this
eco-conscious company’s founders]. His creative team worked with an
educational consultant to flesh out the game’s “curriculum,” then
created characters, missions, and quizzes. To help build its community
of gamers, they added online discussion boards and created a virtual
explorer’s club so kids could meet online to share what they learned.
And, of course, there are the usual gamer faves: character profiles of
heroes and foes; the ability to customize your avatar, or player
profile; and a soundtrack you can tailor. 

 Though serious
eco-games of this sophistication aren’t common, a few other developers
have realized that students aren’t the only ones who can learn from
them. When New York artist Lillian Ball heard that the Great Ponds
Wetlands near her home in Southold, Long Island, was threatened by
development, she created GO ECO!, an interactive game in which players
must collaborate to protect it. “One goal of the game is to help people
understand points of view different from their own,” Ball says. Though
she has no plans to commercialize it, she’s bringing GO ECO! to art
exhibitions and other venues to inform Long Island citizens about the
wetlands, and to demonstrate how it has stimulated and even enhanced
discussions among opposing groups. “Motivating people to take action is
a real challenge, and it’s one of the best things a game can do,” says
Stokes. 

As for Adventure Ecology, Free Range has been refining
the game based on user feedback, and portions of it are available for
free on the  Web .
Its biggest success so far, however, might be its refreshing tone. By
clearly explaining the environmental consequences of human activity,
and encouraging players to develop their own methods for curbing
pollution, Adventure Ecology empowers kids to adopt earth-friendly
habits and reframes environmental stewardship as an inspiring
opportunity instead of a thankless chore. "I was skeptical about
whether an eco-video game would be effective,” says Courtney. “But it’s
amazing to see how excited kids get when you present them information
in a way that’s engaging and fun."
</body> 