 Chimera 2.0 Tutorial: Connecting and Disconnecting the Jimage Client to Chimera<body>
 

 Connecting and Disconnecting the Jimage client to Chimera 

   
The Jimage client application needs to be connected with Chimera in order
for it to utilize Chimera's hypermedia services.  When Jimage is 
started, it looks for the Chimera Server.  If it is found running,
Jimage will connect to it.
 

  You are allowed to connect or disconnect with the Chimera Server 
using the commands available on the Chimera menu on Jimage.
 

  Note: The Chimera Server is a program running in the user's environment
which selects Chimera Websites for the user's client applications.  
See 
 Starting the Chimera Server on the Client Side
  for more information about the Chimera Server.
 

 Jimage Status Bar indicates the State of the Connection 

  Jimage includes has three boxes on the status bar 
which indicates the state of 
the connection between Jimage and the Chimera Server.  The right
most box on the status bar indicates whether  
Jimage is connected to the Chimera Server, note the 
word connected in the right most box indicates Jimage is connected to
the Chimera Server.
 

   

 
The next box on the status bar indicates when a web has been selected 
in the Chimera Server.  When a web has been selected by the Chimera 
Server the words Web active will appear in this box.
 

   

 
The next box on the status bar indicates if a link has been selected as 
the active link.  If an active link is selected for a web, the
words Link active will appear in the box.
 

   

 
When there is no connection between Jimage and the Chimera Server, the 
status bar will be empty.
 

   


 Connecting with the Chimera Server 

 
To connect Jimage to the Chimera Server, select the Connect to Chimera command 
in the Chimera menu.  Once it is connected, the status bar will indicate the
state of the connection. Note: Connect to Chimera is only available when
there is no connection between Jimage and the Chimera Server.
 

   

 Disconnecting with the Chimera Server 

 
To disconnect from the Chimera Server, select the Disconnect from Chimera
command in the Chimera menu.  Note: Disconnect from Chimera is only available
when a connection exists with the Chimera Server.
 

   

</body> 