 MHCID ICS | master of human-computer interaction and design (MHCID) 

	 
		 
			 
					    
					 



					

					



					 
						
      Search for: 
     
    					 


				 
			 
		 





			 Menu 
				 Skip to content 
				    Program 
  
	  About the Program  
	  Curriculum  
	  Capstone Projects  
 
  
  People 
  
	  MHCID Faculty and Staff  
	  Industry Advisory Board  
	  Current Students  
	  Mentors  
 
  
  Admissions 
  
	  Information Sessions  
	  Admissions Overview  
	  Costs and Financial Aid  
 
  
  FAQ  
  
				
				 
								  
                

			 
	 


	 

		 
	 
		   Home   	 

	 
		 

							
	 Home 
		 
			 Welcome to the Master of Human-Computer Interaction &amp; Design Program 
  The Department of Informatics at UC Irvine offers the only mixed format, low-residency one year masters of human-computer interaction and design (MHCID) in the world, providing students the benefits of in-person high touch learning in accelerated on campus visits with the flexibility of online distance education. UC Irvine’s MHCID program prepares its graduates to be leaders in user experience research and design, interaction design, information architecture, product design, and human-computer interaction. Like all Master’s programs in the University of California, MHCID is accredited by the WSCUC accrediting body and overseen by the Academic Senate of the University of California. 
  Admissions is now open for the 2017-2018 school year. Applications will be due by March  15, 2017 and can be accessed  here . Please contact the MCHID graduate office at  mhcid@ics.uci.edu  or the faculty director at  mhciddirector@ics.uci.edu  for further information. </strong> 
 Some highlights of the program include: 
  An interdisciplinary orientation 
 Flexibility to complete your Masters while continuing in your profession 
 Nine courses to be completed in one or two years 
 Diverse faculty with backgrounds in art and design, business, computer science, media arts, information science, and psychology 
 A substantial project component for an external client, with a team orientation 
    WHY MHCID? </strong> 
 MHCID is an inclusive, interdisciplinary academic community geared towards highly successful professionals in user experience. Graduates of MHCID will be prepared for a variety of careers, including user experience (UX) research and design, systems analysis, design research, product design, project management, usability evaluation, web development; and more. Students will attend intensive accelerated in person classes on the beautiful UC Irvine campus in Orange County, CA as well as courses online. 
   
 MHCID students solve real-world problems in diverse teams working closely with our award-winning interdisciplinary faculty. After mastering a range of key user experience skills and subjects, graduates will gain important academic and practical experience through our capstone project course. Working in teams of four to six, students will collaborate with an industry sponsor to innovate, improve, or modify a new or existing human-to-machine technology. 
 Faculty-student ratios are high across the program with every class taught by a faculty member and receiving support from multiple Teaching Assistants. The flexibility of distance learning allows students to complete their coursework on a schedule that meets their professional needs without moving and leaving successful career paths. MHCID students will have access to a broad range of networking activities through our extensive alumni network and industry and academic advisory boards. 
 Please contact  mhciddirector@ics.uci.edu  for further information. 
              
		 
	 

	 
	 
			
			 


				 
						   
				 

				 
						   
				 


				 
					
					    Feedback  
  Privacy Policy  
  					© 2017 UC Regents
				 

				 

					   
					   


				 

			 

		 

	 

</body> 