  "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN\"&gt;

 
UCI Machine Learning Repository: MicroMass Data Set   
		                Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems   
	 
	 
		 
		 About  
		 Citation Policy  
		 Donate a Data Set  
		 Contact 
		 

		  
		   Repository  
		  Web  
		          
		   
		 
		


		    View 
ALL Data Sets    
		  
      

      
	 
	  MicroMass Data Set  
	    Download  :   Data Folder  ,   Data Set Description    

	  Abstract : A dataset to explore machine learning approaches for the identification of microorganisms from mass-spectrometry data. 
      
        
          Data Set Characteristics:     
		  Multivariate  
		   Number of Instances:   
		  931  
		   Area:   
		  Life  
	     Attribute Characteristics:   
		  Real  
		   Number of Attributes:   
		  1300  
		   Date Donated   
		  2013-08-12  
	     Associated Tasks:   
		  Classification  
		   Missing Values?   
		  N/A  
		   Number of Web Hits:   
		  24269  
	     Source:  
 Pierre Mahé,  pierre.mahe  '@'  biomerieux.com , bioMérieux Jean-Baptiste Veyrieras,  jean-baptiste.veyrieras  '@'  biomerieux.com , bioMérieux 

   Data Set Information:  
 This MALDI-TOF dataset consists in: A) A reference panel of 20 Gram positive and negative bacterial species covering 9 genera among which several species are known to be hard to discriminate by mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF). Each species was represented by 11 to 60 mass spectra obtained from 7 to 20 bacterial strains, constituting altogether a dataset of 571 spectra obtained from 213 strains. The spectra were obtained according to the standard culture-based workflow used in clinical routine in which the microorganism was first grown on an agar plate for 24 to 48 hours, before a portion of colony was picked, spotted on a MALDI slide and a mass spectrum was acquired.  B) Based on this reference panel, a dedicated in vitro mock-up mixture dataset was constituted. For that purpose we considered 10 pairs of species of various taxonomic proximity:    * 4 mixtures, labelled A, B, C and D, involved species that belong to the same genus,    * 2 mixtures, labelled E and F, involved species that belong to distinct genera, but to the same Gram type,    * 4 mixtures, labelled G, H, I and J, involved species that belong to distinct Gram types. Each mixture was represented by 2 pairs of strains, which were mixed according to the following 9 concentration ratios : 1:0, 10:1, 5:1, 2:1, 1:1, 1:2, 1:5, 1:10, 0:1. Two replicate spectra were acquired for each concentration ratio and each couple of strains, leading altogether to a dataset of 360 spectra, among which 80 are actually pure sample spectra. 

   Attribute Information:  
 Provide information about each attribute in your data set. 

   Relevant Papers:  
 Mahé et al. (2014). Automatic identification of mixed bacterial species fingerprints in a MALDI-TOF mass-spectrum. Bioinformatics. Vervier et al., A benchmark of support vector machines strategies for microbial identification by mass-spectrometry data, submitted 

    Citation Request:  
 If you have no special citation requests, please leave this field blank. 

        Supported By:  
           
           In Collaboration With:  
           
   
 
 About   || 
 Citation Policy   || 
 Donation Policy   || 
 Contact   || 
 CML 
 
 





 