 faculty positions @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Employment  


     
 Faculty Positions 

 
 


  Multiple Positions:   UCI 2016-2017 Midcareer Professor Hiring Initiative</strong> 
 UCI is engaged in ambitious strategic expansion and seeks to hire advanced assistant professors and tenured associate to early full professors with distinguished publication or creative endeavor records and upward trajectories in their research profiles. We will build on the existing strengths of our faculty campuswide, fortify our commitment to diversity, and consider interdisciplinary, transdisciplinary, and convergent science scholars. 
 Recently celebrating its 50th anniversary, the University of California, Irvine is part of the premier public university system in the world. UCI is a member of the Association of American Universities and was recently named by U.S. News &amp; World Report as a top ten public university and by the New York Times as No. 1 among U.S. universities that do the most for low-income students. UCI is located in one of the world’s safest and most economically vibrant communities and is Orange County’s second-largest employer, contributing $4.8 billion annually to the local economy. 
 Applicants are expected to have advanced degrees and publication/creative endeavor records commensurate with appointment levels in each school. 
 Applications received by November 9, 2016 will receive fullest consideration. 
 The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy. 
 To be considered for an appointment in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences, go to:  https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF03719     
     


 
 
 
  More employment » 
   Endowed Bren Chairs  
  Faculty positions  
  Lecturer positions  
  Research positions  
  Student/alumni job board  
  Staff positions  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 