 Computational Vision | ICS | UC Irvine  
   
     Computational Vision at UC Irvine    
   
   
       home  
        projects  
        people  
        publications  
        datasets  
        events  
        courses  
        contact  
        links  
      

   
     
       Overview: 
       
          Newly developed microscopy techniques are providing an unprecedented look at
the biochemical processes that underpin life. These range from cryo electron
microscopy, which reveals structures at the scale of individual
macromolecules, to confocal fluorescence microscopy, which can measure
concentrations of a particular protein at a neural synapse or across an entire
developing animal. Just as microarrays allowed the move from individual genes
to studying the entire genome in parallel, quantitative imaging opens a whole
new spatial dimension of gene expression.  Successfully harvesting biological
insights from the increasing flood of imaging data will require a whole new
computational and statistical toolbox for dealing with the spatial aspects of
morphology and gene expression. 

       
     
     
       Publications: 
       
        
 
       
    Hierarchical Planar Correlation Clustering for Cell Segmentation   Julian Yarkony , Chong Zhang,  Charless Fowlkes  Energy Minimization Methods in Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2015, 492--504.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    A gene expression atlas of a bicoid-depleted Drosophila embryo reveals early canalization of cell fate  Max Staller,  Charless Fowlkes , Meghan Bragdon, Zeba Wunderlich, Javier Estrada, Angela DePace Development, 2015, 142, 3, 587--596.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    Analysis of in vivo single cell behavior by high throughput, human-in-the-loop segmentation of three-dimensional images  Michael Chiang,  Sam Hallman , Amanda Cinquin, Nabora Mochel, Adrian Paz, Shimako Kawauchi, Anne Calof, Ken Cho,  Charless Fowlkes , Oliver Cinquin BMC Bioinformatics, 2015, 16:397.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    Whole-body tissue stabilization and selective extractions via tissue-hydrogel hybrids for high-resolution intact circuit mapping and phenotyping  Jennifer Treweek, Ken Chan, Nicholas Flytzanis, Bin Yang, Benjamin Deverman, Alon Greenbaum, Antti Lignell, Cheng Xiao, Long Cai, Mark Ladinsky, Pamela Bjorkman,  Charless Fowlkes , Viviana Gradinaru Nature Protocols, 2015, 10, 11, 1860--1896.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    A Conserved Developmental Patterning Network Produces Quantitatively Different Output in Multiple Species of Drosophila   Charless Fowlkes , Kelly Eckenrode, Meghan Bragdon, Miriah Meyer, Zeba Wunderlich, Lisa Simirenko, Cris Luengo, Soile Keränen, Clara, Henriquez, David Knowles, Mark Biggin, Michael Eisen, Angela DePace PLoS Genetics, 2011, 7, e1002346.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    Shirnk-Film Configurable Multiscale Wrinkles for Functional Alignment of Human Embryonic Stem Cells and their Cardiac Derivatives  Aaron Chen, Deborah Lieu, Lauren Freshauf, Valerie Lew, Himanshu Sharma, Jianxian Wang, Diep Nguyen, Ioannis Karakikes, Roger Hajjar, Ajay Gopinathan, Elliot Botvinick,  Charless Fowlkes , Ronald Li, Michelle Khine Advanced Materials, 2011, 23, 5785-5791.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    Analysis of Gap Gene Reguation in a 3D Organism-Scale Model of the Drosophila melanogaster Embryo  James Hengenius, Michael Gribskov, Ann Rundell,  Charless Fowlkes , David Umulis PLoS ONE, 2011, 6, e26797.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    Multi-scale Biomimetic Topography for the Alignment of Neonatal and Embryonic Stem Cell-derived Heart Cells  Jesus Luna, Jesus Ciriza, Marcos Ojeda-Garcia, Marco Kong, Anthony Herren, Deborah Lieu, Ronald Li,  Charless Fowlkes , Michelle Khine, Kara McCloskey Tissue Engineering: Part C, 2011, 17(5).  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    Integrating Data Clustering and Visualization for the Analysis of 3D Gene Expression Data  Oliver Rübel, Gunther Weber, Min-Yu Huang, E. Bethel, Mark Biggin,  Charless Fowlkes , Cris Hendriks, Soile Keränen, Michael Eisen, David Knowles, Jitendra Malik, Hans Hagen, Bernd Hamann IEEE Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, 2010, 7(1), 64-79.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    Nonparametric identification of regulatory interactions from spatial and temporal gene expression data  Anil Aswani, Soile Keräen, James Brown,  Charless Fowlkes , David Knowles, Mark Biggin, Peter Bickel, Claire Tomlin BMC Bioinformatics, 2010, 11:413.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    Visual Exploration of Three-dimensional Gene Expression Using Physical Views and Linked Abstract Views  Gunther Weber, Oliber Rubel, Min-Yu Huang, Angela DePace,  Charless Fowlkes , Soile Keranen, Cris Hendriks, Hans Hagen, David Knowles, Jitendra Malik, Mark Biggin, Bernd Hamann IEEE Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, 2009, 6(2), 296-309.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    A Quantitative Spatiotemporal Atlas of Gene Expression in the Drosohpila Blastoderm   Charless Fowlkes , Cris Luengo, Soile Keränen, Gunther Weber, Oliver Rübel, Min-Yu, Huang, Sohail Chatoor, Lisa Simirenko, Angela DePace, Clara, Henriquez, Amy Beaton, Richard Weiszmann, Susan Celniker, Bernd Hamann, David Knowles, Mark Biggin, Michael Eisen, Jitendra Malik Cell, 2008, 133, 364-374.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    3D Morphology and Gene Expression in the Drosophila Blastoderm at Cellular Resolution II: Dynamics  Soile Keränen,  Charless Fowlkes , Cris Hendriks, Damir Sudar, David Knowles, Jitendra Malik, Mark Biggin Genome Biology, 2006, 7:R124.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    Inferring nuclear movements from fixed material   Charless Fowlkes , Jitendra Malik UC Berkeley, 2006, UCB//EECS-06-142.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    3D Morphology and Gene Expression in the Drosophila Blastoderm at Cellular Resolution I: Data Acquisition Pipeline  Cris Hendriks, Soile Keränen,  Charless Fowlkes , Lisa Simirenko, Gunther Weber, Clara Henriquez, David Kaszuba, Bernd Hamann, Michael Eisen, Jitendra Malik, Damir Sudar, Mark Biggin, David Knowles Genome Biology, 2006, 7:R123.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    PointCloudXplore: Visual Analysis of 3D Gene Expression Data Using Physical Views and Parallel Coordinates  O. Rubel, G.H. Weber, S.V.E. Keranen,  Charless Fowlkes , C.L. Hendriks, L. Simirenko, N.Y. Shah, M.B. Eisen, M.D. Biggin, H. Hagen, D. Sudar, J. Malik, D.W. Knowles, B. Hamann Eurographics/IEEE VGTC Symposium on Visualization, 2006, 203--210.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    Registering Drosophila Embryos at Cellular Resolution to Build a Quantitative 3D Atlas of Gene Expression Patterns and Morphology   Charless Fowlkes , Cris Hendriks, Soile Keränen, Mark Biggin, David Knowles, Damir Sudar, Jitendra Malik CSB 2005 Workshop on BioImage Data Minning and Informatics, 2005.  [pdf]  
 
 
       
    Extracting Global Structure from Gene Expression Profiles   Charless Fowlkes , Qun Shan, Serge Belongie, Jitendra Malik Methods of Microarray Data Analysis II, 2002.  [pdf]  
 

       
     
   
   
     
       Computational Vision  |
       School of Information and Computer Sciences  |
       UC Irvine 
     
     © 2007-2016 UC Irvine 
   
   </body> 