 Geometry in Action: Motion Planning<body>

 
 
  
 
  
  Robot Motion Planning 

The study of exact algorithms for robot motion planning
forms a major subarea of computational geometry,
with connections also to symbolic and algebraic computation.
Note that motion planning is useful not only for computer control of
actual robots; in his invited talk at FOCS 1995, Jean-Claude Latombe
showed impressive videos of applications of the same techniques
in assembly planning and to
 computer animation .
     Collision
detection  research at UNC.
 
    Level set
methods  for following the evolution of interfaces, J. Sethian,
Berkeley.  The basic idea is to solve various "advancing front" type problems
such as finding shortest paths around obstacles, by evolving a surface
in one higher dimension that describes the dynamics of the front.
Includes movies and Java applets describing applications to
VLSI design, medical image processing, noise removal from images, and
robot motion planning.
 
    Localization and navigation using laser radar . This project at U. Würzburg uses visibility polygon matching to determine robot locations.
 
    Motion planning literature search ,
J. Vleugels and P. Svestka, Utrecht.
 
    Robotics Resource Page , Data Recovery Labs.
 
    Robotics
papers and preprints , list of online papers on sensor based
planning, grasping and fixturing, locomotion, and other robotics topics,
maintained by Howie Choset, CMU.
 
    Twelve
open problems in industrial robotics .
 
    US
Patent 4862373  is an early patent on robot motion planning
algorithms, referenced by many later patents on the same subject.
 
   Worksh. Algorithmic Foundations of Robotics.  1st Worksh. , proceedings contents and ordering info.  3rd Worksh. ,
Houston, March 1998, program and participants.
 
     
Part of
 Geometry in Action ,
a collection of applications of computational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 