 Presentation Review Guidelines<body>
   UC Irvine  —  Information &amp; Computer Science  —  ICS 139W  —  David G. Kay   
   Presentation Review Guidelines</strong>  
    Oral presentations are complex, so sometimes
      it's useful to review them in segments.  Consider the following as you
  listen to others' presentations, and as you prepare your own.  
  
 Speaker's linguistic behavior    
     Rate of speech, use of pauses   
   
     Tone of voice, intonation   
   
     Verbal mannerisms ("you know," "ummm,"
      "like")   
   
     Kinds of questions the speaker asks   
   
     Responses to audience questions and comments  
     
 
 Speaker's non-verbal behavior    
     Gestures   
   
     Movement around room   
   
     Facial expressions and mannerisms   
   
     Eye contact with audience   
   
     Apparent comfort with speaking before an audience  
     
 
 Presentation modes    
     How does the speaker present his or her information?   
   
     What tools and instructional media are used
      (handouts, blackboard, overhead projector, computer. ...)?  
     
 
 Organization and content of presentation    
     Can you follow the speaker's train of
      thought?   
   
     Are the speaker's facts accurate?   
   
     How well does the speaker appear to understand
      the topic?   
   
     Do you agree with the speaker's conclusions?  
     
 
 Audience    
      Is the audience engaged with the subject matter?
       Do they act attentive?   
   
      Are people sitting mainly in front? in back?   
   
      How (and how often) do audience members interact
       with the speaker?   
   
      What kinds of questions does the audience
       ask?   
   
      Do some members of the audience dominate the
       discussion?  
     
 
 Physical environment    
     Is the lighting adequate?   
   
     How is the furniture configured? Does the
      arrangement affect the presentation?   
   
     What kinds of visual aids are available (chalkboard,
      whiteboard, projector, ...)?   
   
     How much physical space is between the speaker
      and the audience?   
   
     Can you hear ambient noise?   
  
  
 Based on materials by Instructional Development
Services, UC Irvine.  
</body> 