 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Articles  


     
  

 
 

  June 20,  2007</strong>  Orange County Business Journal    Bren Dedicates UCI Computer School Building</strong>   By Sarah Tolkoff</strong>   Donald Bren expanded his real estate empire Wednesday with the dedication of a building at the University of California, Irvine.  This time around, it’s his name on the building, not The Irvine Company’s.  The dedication marked the official unveiling of the new home for the School of Information and Computer Sciences at UC Irvine, even though the building has been open since the start of the year.  It’s set to be the main base for the school, which adopted Bren's name in 2002.  Previously, the school had been spread out among four buildings, trailers and offices in the nearby University Research Park, which the Irvine Co. owns with UCI.  The building took three years to complete and was funded by Bren’s $20 million gift to the school a few years ago.  It has about 100,000 square feet of classrooms, offices and labs as well as a big rooftop patio overlooking the few remaining undeveloped areas on campus.  Like many of UCI’s buildings, it’s got a modern, airy and industrial design marked by sky lit atriums and exposed concrete floors.  The computer school's logo got a slick redesign to include Bren’s name in amped up versions of the school’s blue and gold colors.  Chancellor Michael Drake introduced Bren, saying that he is a longtime friend.  “When I got this position (as chancellor) I called Donald Bren before I called my mother,” he joked. “Don is better at keeping secrets.”  The Irvine Co. chairman, a big education supporter, addressed a crowd of about 500 in one of the new building’s lecture halls.  “At my core, I’m a builder,” Bren said. “It’s been a lifetime passion for me.”  Bren spoke about the true “tests of time and function” that determine the value of a piece of real estate.  “The real satisfaction in a building comes many years later. The big question is, ‘does it really serve the users well? Is it attractive, relevant and important 10, 20 or 50 years later?” he asked.  Bren even tipped his hat—literally, a blue UCI baseball cap—to the Anteater’s baseball team, which has advanced to the nationals for the first time and have won 16 of their last 18 games.  UCI's goal is to be among the top 10 universities in the next five years.  “I have very high hopes for this school,” Bren said. “I view my association with this school as one of my best long-term investments.”  Bren Dedicates UCI Computer School Building 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 