 
ECHT'94:Chimera:Hypertext Concepts<body> 

 
    Table of Contents  
  Introduction  
  Conceptual Architecture  
    2. Hypertext Concepts 
Chimera has a flexible set of hypertext concepts that map well into the domain of software development environments. Our concepts include objects, viewers, views, anchors, links, attribute-value pairs, and hyperwebs (See Figure 1). In the remainder of this section, we define each concept and provide an example which illustrates how they can be applied in a software development environment. 

      
   Figure 1:  Chimera Concept Example.  Chimera's hypertext concepts are shown on the left. Two viewers are combined with one object to produce two distinct views. An anchor is added to each view and then combined in one link. On the right, an example hyperweb presents a data file (stored as a file in the operating system) being displayed by two different viewers. One viewer displays the data as a spreadsheet, creating a spreadsheet view of the data file.The other viewer displays the data as a chart, creating a chart view of the same data. The two distinct anchors are indicated by a black box in the spreadsheet, and a black underline in the chart. The anchors are stored in the Chimera database, not in the data file.  The two anchors are members of the link. Attribute-value pairs are not indicated to avoid visual clutter. 
   

     Objects  	 Objects are named, persistent entities whose internal structure is unknown and irrelevant to Chimera. 
    Viewers  	 Viewers are named active entities that display objects.  The operations provided by a viewer are specific to the viewer and the type of objects it displays. Typically viewers provide browsing, creation, and editing functionality on objects within their domain. 
    Views  	 Views denote a pair  where  is a viewer for an object . Note that an object may be displayed by more than one viewer, and thus participate in multiple views. Views contain anchors. 
    Anchors  	 Anchors are defined and managed by viewers in the context of a view. An anchor tags some portion of a view as an item of interest.  Anchors are tailored by a viewer to the particular view of the object being displayed.  Unlike hypertext systems which require direct anchor to object mappings [12], with anchors often embedded in the objects themselves [25], Chimera anchors may represent some purely visual component, such as a button or other interface element. Even when creating anchors on the view of an object, the underlying object may be left unmodified, still usable by tools unaware of Chimera's existence. 
    Links  	 A link is a set of anchors. Links relate portions of views. Links are first-class objects in Chimera and a viewer can be constructed to display them. Anchors may be created on these link views and included in other links. In this manner Chimera supports "links to links," an important abstraction which supports construction of large, complex hyperwebs. 
    Attribute-Value Pairs  	 Each instance of a Chimera hypertext concept can have an arbitrary number of attribute-value pairs associated with it. An attribute-value pair consists of two associated strings where one string contains the attribute's name, the other its value. Attribute-value pairs are commonly used in hypertext systems to provide run-time semantics or behavior for hypertext entities[3]. Example uses of attributes include providing access to an anchor only to the user who created it, or link viewers filtering their displays to show only certain types of links. 
    Hyperwebs  	 A collection of objects, viewers, views, anchors, and links along with their attributes is a Chimera hyperweb. A hyperweb is similar to Leggett's hypermedia [21] and Halasz's hypertext [13]. 
   


 Example.  Several of the Chimera hypertext concepts are demonstrated by a term project from a senior level software engineering project class. For this project, students augmented a flight simulator program distributed with Chiron so that its design and requirements documents, both created with FrameMaker, are efficiently accessed via link traversal.  

At the heart of the flight simulator are abstract data types (ADTs) representing the state of the aircraft, including the aircraft's pitch, roll, heading, altitude, and speed. Gauges in the flight simulator's cockpit visualize information from these ADTs as they are updated by the simulator's flight equations. Chiron performs this visualization. In this application the ADTs are considered Chimera objects, Chiron is  considered a Chimera viewer, and the gauges that Chiron produces are Chimera views.  

The flight simulator requirements and design documents were written using FrameMaker. Both documents are considered Chimera objects. FrameMaker allows users to access and edit these documents, hence FrameMaker is a (Chimera) viewer. The display of the requirements document represents a Chimera view, as does the display of the design document. Anchors are created on the display of the section titles within these documents.  

Students added two buttons to each flight simulator gauge, marked "Requirements" and "Design" respectively. These buttons do not visualize any portion of the ADT represented by each gauge, rather they are the visual indication of two Chimera anchors created on the gauge/view. For each gauge, the Requirements anchor was put in a link along with an anchor on the top of the requirements document section describing that gauge. Thus, a single click of the requirements button takes the engineer from the running ("flying") simulator to the requirements for that gauge in the requirements document. The Design anchor was similarly linked to the design document.  

The artificial horizon gauge demonstrates the value of the Chimera view concept. This gauge produces a visualization which is a synthesis of information from two objects, the pitch ADT and the roll ADT. This gauge represents a distinct view from the gauges/views that just show the values of the two ADTs separately. Students were able to add their anchor buttons to all three views. Thus while there is no object in the application which directly corresponds to the artificial horizon view, the engineer is nonetheless able to link the gauge to its appropriate requirements document. Moreover since Chimera anchors are defined on a view rather than an object, anchors can be added to multiple simultaneous views of the same object.
      Table of Contents  
  Introduction  
  Conceptual Architecture  
   

  
 
This page is part of the  Chimera  web site. 
Send feedback and questions to  Ken Anderson . 
Last updated on Thu, Sep 19, 1996 at 12:33:39 PM. 
 
</body> 