 Archive of Working Group on Versioning and Configuration Management of World Wide Web Content: Proposed agenda for San Mateo Meeting<body> Proposed agenda for San Mateo Meeting 
 Jim Whitehead  (  ejw@ics.uci.edu  )  Thu, 20 Jun 1996 17:20:53 -0700 
 
     Messages sorted by:   [ date ]  [ thread ]  [ subject ]  [ author ] 

    Previous message:   Larry Masinter: "Re: Re2: what's doable in Web version control" 


    
There is a planned kick-off meeting for the W3C Working Group on
Distributed Authoring on the World Wide Web for July 10 in San Mateo,
California at the offices of NaviSoft (many thanks to Dave Long
&lt; dave@navisoft.com &gt; for graciously arranging these facilities). So far I
have received word that the following people are planning on attending: Dan
Connolly (W3C), Larry Masinter (Xerox PARC, IETF HTTP WG Chair), Dennis
Hamilton (Xerox PARC, Document Management Alliance), Dave Long (NaviSoft),
Jim Whitehead (U.C. Irvine).  I have also received feelers from other
interested parties.

If you're planning on attending this meeting, please drop me a short note
via email so I can tell Dave Long how many people to expect.  Also, if you
have any A/V requests, please forward those along to me as well.  Thanks!

Let me put forward the following meeting agenda, which we can refine based
on your concerns and items you'd like to see addressed.

Morning (9AM)
 - Introductions
 - Discussion of the direction and purpose of the working group
 - Overview of efforts to date on distributed authoring
 - Review of current distributed web authoring systems and the mechanisms
they employ

Break for lunch at noon.

Afternoon (1:30PM)
 - Identification of key areas in which existing systems are unable to
interoperate (e.g., HTTP method employed to write contents, access control)
 - Discussion of which key areas can be profitably addressed by this
working group, and a rough prioritization of the areas
 - Solicitation of volunteers for coordinating work on improving
interoperability in key areas
 - Development of criteria for evaluating the success of key area work groups
 - Establishing timelines for action


I look forward to meeting you in San Mateo!

- Jim Whitehead &lt; ejw@ics.uci.edu &gt;
 

  
     Previous message:   Larry Masinter: "Re: Re2: what's doable in Web version control" 


  </body> 