 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  June 6,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         New professorship, Oracle gift for Franz</strong>
              Recently conferred Chancellor’s Professor Michael Franz receives unrestricted $100,000 gift from Oracle Labs.    
                    
 Michael Franz</strong> has been conferred the title of Chancellor’s Professor, reserved to recognize “scholars who have demonstrated unusual academic merit and whose continued promise for scholarly achievement makes them of exceptional value to the university,” according to the Office of the Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor. The professorship was effective June 1, 2016, and is conferred for a five-year renewable term, upon recommendation of the dean.

  
Franz has also recently received an unrestricted gift of $100,000 from Oracle Labs for his work in compiler and language research. This is Oracle’s second gift to support Franz’s research; he previously received $140,000 in 2014. “In a time of shrinking budgets, gifts like these are significant enablers for world-class research at public universities,” Franz says on his  website .

  
Oracle Labs is the research and development wing that keeps the company at the forefront of the computer industry, the company says. “Oracle Labs research is focused on real-world outcomes: our researchers aim to develop technologies that will someday play a significant role in the evolution of technology and society,” Oracle Labs says on their  website .
 
  
Franz is noted for his work in software systems research, where he focuses on the fields of computer security, trustworthy computing, and software engineering. He has received more than $16 million in federal research funding—$11 million of which was received as sole principal investigator—and more than $1 million in gifts from industry heavyweights like Oracle, Mozilla and Qualcomm Corp. He has twice been recognized for his graduate mentorship, receiving the Dean's Award for Graduate Student Mentoring in 2007 and again in 2016. He has served as primary advisor for 25 Ph.D. graduates and published more than 130 peer-reviewed research papers. He is both an ACM and an IEEE fellow.

  
Known as a pioneer in the fields of mobile code and dynamic compilation, where he created an early just-in-time compilation system, Franz contributes to the theory and practice of continuous compilation and optimization, and co-created the early compilation technology used in Mozilla's Firefox browser. Now, Franz’s work uses compiler, virtual machine, and related system-level techniques to make software safer and faster.


   New professorship, Oracle gift for Franz    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Foreign Students Seen Cheating More Than Domestic Ones
              
                Next &gt; 
                 Jain receives 2016 IEEE MultiMedia Best Department Article Award

             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 