 Programming Language Web Page<body>
  
 
      Summary:   Create a web page giving
an overview of some programming language.  
 
 Often you hear about some programming language
and you'd like to get a quick overview of that language--not a whole
course in how to use it, but some indication of what it does, what it looks
like, where it's used, and so on.  This is your opportunity to pick
one language and create such an overview, on a web page that will be  part of the ICS 141 materials on line .  
   
  How does this affect my course grade? 
 This project is entirely optional.  It doesn't have a direct effect
on your course grade:  There aren't any course points associated with
it; it won't make up for weak performance on the homeworks or exams.
 On the other hand, if you do reasonably well in the course, doing a good
job on this project might give your course grade a small boost.  In addition,
a good job on this project lets me say something unique and positive about
you if you ask me to be a job reference or to write a letter of recommendation;
this means much more than a simple recitation of how good a grade you got
in my class.  Finally, the main reason to do it is that it's fun to
learn about something new and unusual, and it's a gentle, manageable
introduction to doing some independent research.  
   
  What language should I choose?   You
may choose any language from the list below:  
 
 Alphard, Algol 60, Algol 68, APL, AppleScript,
APT, Autocoder, Awk, B, BCPL, BLISS, CLOS, CLU, Dylan, Forth, Frontier,
Haskell, Icon, ISETL, Jovial, Leda, Logo, Mathematica, Miranda, ML (SML,
Standard ML), Modula (Modula 2, Modula 3), nroff/troff, Oberon, Object Pascal,
PL/360, PL/I, PL/C, Prograph, PPL, Python, REXX, RPG (RPG-II), Simula, Smalltalk,
Snobol, Stagecast Creator, T, Tcl (and Tk), TeX, Turing, Visual Basic (VBA),
WATFOR (WATFIV)  
 
 If you'd like to choose a language that
isn't on the list, check with me first.  Any language for this project
must be a Turing-equivalent programming language, and it can't be a
language that was done last quarter or one of these popular languages: 
Ada, Basic, C, C++, Cobol, Fortran, Java, Pascal, Prolog, or Scheme.  
 
 Only one person in the class may choose a
given language.  To reserve a language, send Email with your request to
  kay  
(on EA or at ICS); if someone has already chosen your language, I'll
let you know and you can pick again.  Once you reserve a language, you may
not change your choice, so it's a good idea to do a bit of preliminary
research to make sure the language you ask for is the one you want to stay
with.  
   
  Where can I find information?   A good
place to start is the textbook and the references in its bibliography. 
Most of the publications listed should be available in the Science Library.
 These Web-based resources should also be helpful, but note that some of
these aren't academically authoritative:  
  
 The Language List,    http://cuiwww.unige.ch/cgi-bin/langlist   
  
   
 Programming Language Resources,    http://burks.brighton.ac.uk/burks/language/language.htm   
   
 The Hello World Page,    http://www.latech.edu/~acm/HelloWorld.shtml   
   
 99 Bottles of Beer on the Wall,    http://www.ionet.net/~timtroyr/funhouse/beer.html   
   
 Amazon.com should point you to books on many
of the languages; the titles may be useful on your page even if you don't
read a whole book on your language.  
   
 A general web search, e.g., on   google.com  
    
  What should I put on my page?   Include
answers to as many of the following questions as possible.  Remember, though,
that quality is more important than quantity.  Give short answers to the
questions, supplemented where possible by references (to printed publications
or the Web) that give more detail.  
 
 How do you characterize the language in one
sentence--what kind of language is it?  (Scheme, for example, is a compact,
lexically scoped dialect of Lisp.)  
 
 Who designed it?  Where?  When?  
 
 Why was this language designed?  What were
its unique strengths at the time?  What is it used for (and where is it
used) today?    
 
 What variations and dialects of this language
exist?  (Distinguish this from the various implementations of the same language.)
 What other languages are good (or better) alternatives to this one?  
 
 What are the technical characteristics of
the language?  What paradigms does it support?  How would you classify it
in terms of the concepts we cover in the course?  
 
 What implementations of the language are available,
for what platforms?  What courses, texts, and on-line resources are available?  
 
 Give some sample code or programs--not just
"Hello, world" but something representative of the strengths of
the language.  (You can include a small sample on your page and links to
something larger, if possible.)  
     
  What form or design should I use for my
page?     
 
 Use whatever you think is most effective,
subject to these guidelines:  
  
 Even though the information is presented as
questions above, a question-and- answer organization probably isn't
the best way to present your information.  
   
 Keep the design clean and elegant.  This is
academic information, so off-subject jokes or remarks and irrelevant graphics
aren't appropriate.  
   
 Try to make your writing comply with standard
academic English.  At the very least, run spell-check on the text and take
some extra time to proofread and edit your prose.  
   
 Don't copy text or code from another site
if that information is copyrighted.  Anything with a copyright notice (e.g.,
"Copyright © 1999 by Paula Programmer") or some other prohibition
on copying should be left where it is.  You may link to copyrighted information,
though.  
   
 If you copy non-copyrighted information onto
your site, give a citation to the original.  It's okay if your site
is just a compilation of information found elsewhere, so long as you don't
make it appear as if the information comes originally from you.  
   
 Put your name, your Email address, and your
home page (if you have one) at the bottom of your page.  
    
  What do I do when it's done?   Two
things:  Drop a folder containing the HTML source and any additional files
into the ICS 141 dropbox on the Masterhit server.  Then, send an Email to
   ics141@uci.edu   
to let us know you're done.  
 
 Final web pages must be submitted by 5:00
p.m. on Friday of the tenth week.  
   
  Have fun!   
 </body> 