 
	tlatoza – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
		
 	   	  		 Author Archive 
 	  
				 
				  PLATEAU 2014  

				 
                	 October 25, 2014   Thomas visited rainy Portland to co-chair the Fifth Workshop on the Evaluation and Usability of Programming Languages and Tools at SPLASH 2014. There were many great talks on topics ranging from making programming more social through newsfeeds to an analysis of how race detection tools benefit developers. Josh Bloch, designer of the Java collections framework […] 
				 

				   Posted in   Uncategorized  |     Comments Off  on PLATEAU 2014    

			 

				 
				  UIST 2014  

				 
                	 October 8, 2014   Thomas attended UIST 2014 in Honolulu, presenting his paper on Microtask programming: building software with a crowd. There were a number of interesting papers related to programming tools and crowdsourcing. SDCL also had an entry in the UIST 2014 Analog Fabrication Sandcastle Competition. 
				 

				   Posted in   Travel  |     Comments Off  on UIST 2014    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Arturo and Fabio  

				 
                	 September 15, 2014   Welcome Arturo Di Lecce and Fabio Ricci! Arturo and Fabio join us from Politecnico di Milano in Italy, where they are currently masters students. They’ll be visiting SDCL in sunny California for the next year and will be working on projects related to crowd programming and crowd design. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Arturo and Fabio    

			 

				 
				  Crowd Programming featured on ACM TechNews  

				 
                	 July 30, 2014   Our work on Crowd Programming was also featured on ACM TechNews and Techwire.net. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Crowd Programming featured on ACM TechNews    

			 

				 
				  Press on Crowd Programming Grant  

				 
                	 July 24, 2014   Our work on crowd programming has been briefly featured in both the UC Irinve News and in Campus Technology. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Press on Crowd Programming Grant    

			 

				 
				  Congratulations to the UC Irvine Design Competition Winners!  

				 
                	 July 7, 2014   Congratulations to Ulyana Skladchikova and Matias Giorgio, two of the winners in the UC Irvine Software Design Competition. Participants first produced a design – describing either a system’s architecture and design or its user experience – and were then given some of the designs produced by others, producing a second revised design incorporating insights they […] 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Congratulations to the UC Irvine Design Competition Winners!    

			 

				 
				  Grant on Crowd Programming  

				 
                	 June 13, 2014   We’re very happy to announce that the National Science Foundation has awarded SDCL a $1.4M grant to investigate the application of microtask crowdsourcing to programming. More details in the official NSF announcement. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Grant on Crowd Programming    

			 

				 
				  ICSE 2014  

				 
                	 June 13, 2014   Two members of SDCL – André and Thomas – attended ICSE 2014 in Hyderabad, India. André served as a Program Chair of ICSE, helping to select the program of ICSE. Thomas served as an organizer of a new workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSI-SE). Both ICSE and CSI-SE went very well, and we had […] 
				 

				   Posted in   conference ,  Travel  |     Comments Off  on ICSE 2014    

			 

				 
				  SCALE meeting at UC Irvine  

				 
                	 May 16, 2014   UC Irvine hosted a meeting of the SCALE research group. SDCL had posters on several research projects. Lots of great discussion! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on SCALE meeting at UC Irvine    

			 

				 
				  Visit to MobileWorks  

				 
                	 April 17, 2014   Thomas gave on a talk on microtask programming at MobileWorks with plenty of great discussion and feedback! Before the talk: 
				 

				   Posted in   Travel  |     Comments Off  on Visit to MobileWorks    

			 

		        
		         
              
              Next Page »  
              
         
                
	 
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 