 Database Research Group @ UCI 

 
     
     
       [  Home  |
       Research  | 
       Publications  | 
       People  | 
       Partners  | 
       Demos  ] 
      [  Courses  | 
       Software  | 
       Links   |
       Internal  |
       Search  | 
       Joining Our Group  ]
      
     
  

   
        
     
      Terrain Similarity Demo Description
     
     
        
         
      This demonstration applies the current MARS back end prototype
      to the field of remotely sensed data. The MARS prototype is better
      described elsewhere, but essentially consists
      of a search engine capable of searching images based on their content.
      To this end a series of image processing tools are used to extract desirable
      features from images so as to query based on them.
       
      MARS provides a simple querying interface taken form the 
      Information Retrieval community. Currently MARS supports the boolean retrieval
      model in which queries over images can be combined via the boolean operators
       AND ,  OR  and  NOT . Each simple term is formed by specifying
      the desired measure (i.e. color similarity, texture similarity, etc.) and
      an identifying number of the query image. MARS then computes for each
      simple term all matching images and the degree of the match and then combines
      them according to one of two criteria: distance and probability.
        
        Project description 
     
         Database Size   
        For this demonstration, we have 30 meter satellite imagery of the Fort
        Irwin Area. Our data is composed of seven bands described here:   Band 1 - (0.45-0.52 micrometers) Water penetration 

           Band 2 - (0.52-0.60 micrometers) Visible green 

           Band 3 - (0.63-0.69 micrometers) Chlorophyll absorption
          (vegetation detection) 

           Band 4 - (0.76-0.90 micrometers) Soil-crop, land-water
          contrast 

           Band 5 - (1.55-1.75 micrometers) Crop and soil moisture 

           Band 6 - (2.08-2.35 micrometers) Discrimination of rock
          formations 

           Band 7 - (10.4-12.5 micrometers) Thermal infrared 
          
        This data covers 50 x 50 kilometers and we chose to divide
        it up into one by one kilometer regions. These image subsets are then used
        to extract the required features and stored in a database. Additionally, 
        we have elevation data for the same area. This was used to
        construct the colored image shown upon entry and was height color coded
        according to a fairly standard color scheme for elevation data.  
         
           Modules Of This Project  
        This project can be divided into 4 main components   

             Back End Algorithm (Image Feature Extraction)  
            The algorithms that extract images features. 
            The other algorithm in use is a combination of the first three moments
            of the intensity level of each pixel. Other algorithms are available in
            the back end query engine and feature extractors, but were not used for
            this demonstration.  

              Back End Query Engine  
            The feature extraction described above is done off-line and once to build
            the database. The query engine then uses these databases to process queries
            submitted from the user interface.  

              Front End Interface   
            We have a GUI and the demo is accessible from the web. Although this interface
            covers the back end query engine, it serves as a conduit for the user to
            access it.  
            The user interface constructs a query which is then submitted to the query
            engine. The user can see the query at different stages of completion and
            just before submission.  

              Relational Database Design  
            The image features extracted are then stored in an image database  
            
         
          

           User Interface Output  
        The User interface outputs a color coded sequence of images. The first
        one shown is the above mentioned color coded by height data. From then
        on, a series of images representing individual bands are shown. Each of
        these images corresponds to a band that was selected by the user.
        Each of these images has a colored overlay ranging from red to blue. Areas
        colored are good matches, the red being the best and the blue the worst,
        but still better that any non colored area. The user is given the option
        to zoom in on one of the images to see more detail. A sample output is shown 
        here, click it for a larger view. 
        
     
   
        
      For any problems, questions or suggestions about this page, please contact, 
      Mario Espinoza - (  espinoza@ics.uci.edu  ) 
     
       rev. 
       Feb. 07, 2001
       
     
     

</body> 