 Archives of WebDAV-Related Protocol Proposals<body>
 Archived WebDAV-Related Protocol Proposals 

 During the development of the WebDAV Distributed Authoring
Protocol, there were many proposals fielded in an effort to
explore the remote authoring protocol design space. These
protocol proposals are archived below. None of these documents
are currently under active consideration by the WebDAV Working
Group. 

 
  Versioning and
Variant Extensions to WebDAV 
[ Word 97 ] 
Christopher Kaler  
This document, not yet submitted as an internet draft, specifies a set
of methods, headers, and content-types composing DAV Versioning and
Variant extensions, an application of the HTTP/1.1 protocol to version
DAV resources. September 28, 1998. 

 
  Versioning
Extensions to WebDAV  
Christopher Kaler  
This document describes a set of methods, headers, and properties that
extend the HTTP and WebDAV protocols to support versioning and variant
authoring of Web resources. Operations are provided to perform both
basic versioning and parallel versioning.  Currently at Internet-Draft
revision level 00, August 6, 1998,
&lt;draft-kaler-webdav-versioning-00.txt&gt;. 
  
 
  A Web
Versioning Protocol  
Jim Whitehead  
This document describes a protocol for versioning and variant
authoring of Web resources.  Currently at Internet-Draft revision
level 00, June 9, 1998,
&lt;draft-whitehead-webdav-versioning-00.txt&gt;.
While some ideas from this specification can be found in the current
versioning protocol specification, draft-whitehead-webdav-versioning
is not an active document.
 

 
  
Distributed Authoring and Versioning Protocol  
Jim Cunningham, Asad Faizi  
This protocol specification provides an example of how some of the
distributed authoring and versioning requirements can be satisfied
by method extensions to HTTP.   Currently at author's draft v0.1.
 

 
  
Version management with meta-level links via HTTP/1.1  
K. Ota, K. Takahashi, K. Sekiya  
This Internet-Draft describes version management of WWW resources
within the HTTP/1.1 framework.  The approach uses
meta-level links, which is not an anchor of HTML format, but an
attribute of the resource. This allows versioning to be performed
on non-HTML format resources.  In this approach, the client,
rather than the server, enforces consistency of derived-from
relationships.
 

 
  WebDAV Tree
Operations  
Yaron Y. Goland, Saveen Reddy  
This document specifies the methods DELETE-TREE, COPY-TREE, and
MOVE-TREE which perform the equivalent of a DELETE, COPY, and MOVE
across a collection and all its progeny.  Currently at Internet-Draft
revision level 01, November 6, 1997,
&lt;draft-ietf-webdav-depth-01.txt&gt;.  This draft explored a
design alternative to the "Depth" header now found in RFC 2518. 

 Last modified: July 3, 2003 

</body> 