 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Articles  


     
  

 
 

  December 10,  2013</strong>  ACM Press Room    2013 Fellows Hail from World's Leading Universities and Corporations</strong>      
 Read the story below or view it on the 
 ACM  website. 



   NEW YORK, December 10, 2013  -- ACM has recognized 50 of its members for their contributions to computing that are driving innovations across multiple domains and disciplines.  The  2013 ACM Fellows ,  from the world’s leading universities, corporations, and research labs, have achieved advances in computing research and development that are accelerating the digital revolution and impacting every dimension of how we live, work, and play... worldwide.   
 ACM President Vinton G. Cerf celebrated the impact of innovations achieved by this year’s ACM Fellows. “We recognize these scientists and engineers, creators and builders, theorists and practitioners who are making a difference in our lives,” he said.  “They’re enabling us to listen, learn, calculate, and communicate in ways that underscore the benefits of the digital age.  Their advances have led to opportunities for improved healthcare, enhanced security, expanded interactions, and enriched lifestyles.  Some recipients have also led efforts to extend computing across continents and countries including Brazil, China, and Germany.” 
 Within the corporate sector, the 2013 ACM Fellows named from  IBM Research  were cited for contributions to knowledge discovery and data mining, and for leadership in probabilistic methods for data and system simulation management and analysis.   Raytheon BBN Technologies’  ACM   Fellow was recognized for contributions to quantum communications, advanced networks, and programming literacy.   Liquid Robotics’  ACM Fellow was cited for contributions to programming languages, tools, and environments.   Boeing’s  ACM Fellow was honored for achievements in computer graphics, user interaction, and visual analytics.  Other companies with 2013 ACM Fellows are  Yahoo!, Google Inc., and Microsoft Research.  Their respective contributions include industrial leadership and information retrieval; cryptography in systems security and privacy; and computer vision and multimedia. 
  Among the universities with 2013 ACM Fellows is the  University of California , with representatives from  San Diego ,  Berkeley, Irvine,  and  Los Angeles  campuses.  These Fellows were recognized for achievements in security methods for high-quality cryptography; software reliability and quality; information retrieval and computational linguistics, and algorithms for graph partitioning and commodity flows; foundations of automated reasoning and approaches to data mining and machine learning; and research on human interactions with information systems and data practices.   Cornell University’s  ACM Fellows were honored for contributions to the science of information and social networks; languages and systems for implementing secure computing systems; and design and analysis of approximation algorithms.  At the  University of Maryland , ACM Fellows were recognized for image processing, computer vision, and pattern recognition; and automated search and planning.  The ACM Fellows at  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  were cited for wireless networking and Internet congestion control, and synchronization in concurrent programming.  The  University of Pennsylvania’s  ACM Fellows were recognized for algorithmic approaches to program reliability and bioinformatics;  query languages and optimization, and data provenance.  
 Other North American universities with 2013 ACM Fellows include  University of Michigan ;  University of North Carolina Chapel Hill;   Duke   University ;  University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign ;  Carnegie Mellon University;   University of Rochester; Texas A&amp;M University; State University of New York Oswego; Stanford University; Virginia Bioinformatics Institute  and  Virginia Polytechnic Institute; Rice University; Harvard University; New York University Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences; University of Southern California; Georgia Institute of Technology;  and  University of Texas, Austin.   ACM Fellows from these institutions were cited respectively for achievements in human computer interaction; multiprocessor and multicore real-time systems; sensor network infrastructure optimization; computer vision; software architecture; artificial intelligence for assistive technology; wireless communication and control; software for concurrency; natural language processing; high performance computing algorithms; parallel and high performance computing; verification of practical programming languages; data management; teamwork and security games; network communication and computation; and randomness and complexity theory.    
 Among universities outside of North America, the 2013 ACM Fellows hailed from  University College London; Politecnico di Milano; Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro; Peking University ;  RWTH Aachen University, Germany ;  ETH Zurich (Swiss Federal Institute of Technology) ,  RMIT University, Australia; Seoul National University; and National University of Singapore .  Fellows from these universities were recognized respectively for achievements in computer vision and image retrieval, and information retrieval theory and practice; database management; software engineering; video technology; conceptual modeling; operating systems and networking research; database query optimization; scalable data mining and query processing; and computational biology.   
 ACM will formally recognize the 2013 Fellows at its annual Awards Banquet on June 21, 2014, in San Francisco. Additional information about the ACM 2013 Fellows, as well as previous ACM Fellows and award winners is available on the  ACM Awards site . 
  2013 Fellows</strong> 
  
    
  Mark S. Ackerman   University of Michigan  For contributions to human computer interaction, with emphasis on finding and sharing expertise 
 
 
  Douglas S. Lea </strong> State University of New York, Oswego  For contributions to software, particularly in support of concurrency 
 
   
  Charu C. Aggarwal   IBM Research  For contributions to knowledge discovery and data mining algorithms 
 
 
  Yoelle Maarek </strong> Yahoo!  For contributions to industrial leadership and to information retrieval and Web search 
 
   
  James H. Anderson </strong> University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill  For contributions to the implementation and analysis of multiprocessor and multicore real-time  systems 
 
 
  Christopher D. Manning </strong> Stanford University  For contributions to natural language processing research and education 
 
   
  Mihir Bellare   University of California, San Diego  For contributions to provable security methods supporting high-quality, cost-effective cryptography 
 
 
  Madhav V. Marathe </strong> Virginia Bioinformatics Institute  and  Virginia Polytechnic Institute  For contributions to high performance computing algorithms and software environments for simulating and analyzing socio-technical systems 
 
   
  Christine L. Borgman </strong> University of California, Los Angeles  For contributions to research on human interaction with information systems, data practices, and information policy 
 
 
  John M. Mellor-Crummey </strong> Rice University  For contributions to parallel and high performance computing 
 
   
  Stefano Ceri   Politecnico di Milano  For contributions to database management, including distributed databases, rule-processing, and search computing 
 
 
  Greg Morrisett </strong> Harvard University  For contributions to mathematically-based methods for ensuring the efficient implementation and verification of practical programming languages 
 
   
  Krishnendu Chakrabarty </strong> Duke University  For contributions to optimization methods for system-on-chip test automation, microfluidic biochips, and sensor network infrastructure 
 
 
  Andrew C. Myers </strong> Cornell University  For contributions to languages and systems that use information flow for implementing secure computing systems 
 
   
  Ramalingam Chellappa </strong> University of Maryland  For contributions to image processing, computer vision, and pattern recognition 
 
 
  Dana Nau </strong> University of Maryland  For contributions to automated search and planning 
 
   
  Ingemar Cox </strong> University of Copenhagen/University College London  For contributions to computer vision, image retrieval, and digital watermarking 
 
 
  Satish Rao </strong> University of California, Berkeley  For contributions to algorithms for graph partitioning and for single- and multi-commodity flows 
 
   
  Carlos J. P. De Lucena </strong> Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro  For contributions in software engineering and  multiagent systems , and for computer science  leadership in Brazil 
 
 
  S.E. Robertson </strong> University College London  For contributions to the theory and practice of information retrieval 
 
   
  Rina Dechter </strong> University of California, Irvine  For contributions to the algorithmic foundations of automated reasoning with constraint-based and probabilistic information 
 
 
  Timothy Roscoe </strong> ETH Zurich  For contributions to operating systems and networking research 
 
   
  Chip Elliott </strong> Raytheon BBN Technologies  For scientific contributions enabling quantum communications, advanced tactical networks, and programming literacy 
 
 
  Timoleon K. Sellis </strong> RMIT University (Australia)  For contributions to database query optimization, spatial data management, and data warehousing 
 
   
  David Forsyth   University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign  For contributions to computer vision 
 
 
  Dennis E. Shasha </strong> Courant Institute, New York University  For technical and literary contributions over a broad range of data management topics 
 
   
  Wen Gao </strong> Peking University  For contributions to video technology, and for leadership to advance computing in China 
 
 
  Nir N. Shavit </strong> Massachusetts Institute of Technology  For contributions to the theory and practice of synchronization in concurrent programming 
 
   
  David Garlan </strong> Carnegie Mellon University  For contributions to the development of software architecture as a discipline in  software engineering 
 
 
  Kyuseok Shim </strong> Seoul National University  For contributions to scalable data mining and query processing 
 
   
  James Gosling   Liquid Robotics  For Java, NeWS, Emacs, NetBeans, and other contributions to programming languages, tools, and environments 
 
 
  Padhraic Smyth   University of California, Irvine  For contributions to probabilistic and statistical approaches to data mining and machine learning 
 
   
  Peter Haas </strong> IBM Research – Almaden  For leadership in probabilistic methods for the management and analysis of data and for system simulation 
 
 
  Milind Tambe </strong> University of Southern California  For contributions to theory and practice of multi-agent systems, teamwork and security games 
 
   
  Marti Hearst   University of California, Berkeley  For contributions to information retrieval and computational linguistics 
 
 
  Val Tannen </strong> University of Pennsylvania  For contributions to query languages, query optimization and data provenance 
 
   
  Matthias Jarke   RWTH Aachen University (Germany Aachen University of Technology)  For contributions to conceptual modeling, requirements engineering, metadata management, and computer science leadership in Germany 
 
 
  David P. Williamson </strong> Cornell University  For contributions to the design and analysis of approximation algorithms 
 
   
  Sampath K. Kannan </strong> University of Pennsylvania  For contributions to algorithmic approaches to program reliability, bioinformatics, and for  service to the computer science research community 
 
 
  Limsoon Wong   National University of Singapore  For contributions to database theory and computational biology 
 
   
  David J. Kasik   Boeing  For contributions to computer graphics, user interface software, and visual analytics 
 
 
  Moti Yung </strong> Google Inc.  For contributions to cryptography and its use in security and privacy of systems 
 
   
  Dina Katabi </strong> Massachusetts Institute of Technology  For contributions in cross-layer wireless networking, wireless network coding, and  Internet congestion control 
 
 
  Ellen Zegura </strong> Georgia Institute of Technology  For contributions to communication and computation in intermittingly-connected networks 
 
   
  Henry A. Kautz   University of Rochester  For contributions to artificial intelligence and pervasive computing with applications to assistive technology and health 
 
 
  Zhengyou Zhang </strong> Microsoft Research  For contributions to computer vision and multimedia 
 
   
  Jon Kleinberg </strong> Cornell University  For contributions to the science of information and social networks 
 
 
  Yuanyuan Zhou </strong> University of California, San Diego  For contributions to software reliability and quality 
 
   
  Panganamala Kumar </strong> Texas A&amp;M University  For contributions to wireless communication and control technologies 
 
 
 
  David Zuckerman </strong> University of Texas at Austin  For contributions to randomness extraction, pseudorandomness, and their role in complexity theory 
 
 
     
 2013 Fellows Hail from World's Leading Universities and Corporations 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 