 Privacy Policy | UCI<body>
 
		 
			 
				 Skip to main content 
			 
		 
	 
 
		 
			
			 UCI  homepage  
		 
		 
		
	  
						    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
													
				  About  				
										
														    About Us   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   University Facts   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Strategic Plan   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   Power of I   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Chancellor   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Peter the Anteater   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   Diversity Resources   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   Administrative Offices   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Academic Senate   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Directory   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   Visit   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   Work at UCI   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Support UCI   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Smoke-Free Campus   
																		
								
										  
										 
						    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
													
				  Admissions  				
										
														    Undergraduate Admission   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Graduate Admission   
																		
								
											
								
								
									   
											
								
									
    	
    		
	
					  Professional Programs  
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Business   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Law   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Medicine   
																		
								
											
								
								
									   
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Undergraduate International Admissions   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Graduate International Admissions   
																		
								
											
								
								
									   
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Financial Aid   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Housing   
																		
								
										  
										 
						    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
													
				  Academics  				
										
														    Arts   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Biological Sciences   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Business   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Education   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Engineering   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Humanities   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Information &amp; Computer Sciences   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Interdisciplinary Studies   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Law   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Medicine   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Nursing Science   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Pharmaceutical Sciences   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Physical Sciences   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Public Health   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Social Ecology   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Social Sciences   
																		
								
											
								
								
									   
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   General Catalogue   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Majors &amp; Minors   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Schedule of Classes   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Undergraduate/Undeclared   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Division of Undergraduate Education   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Graduate Division   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Division of Continuing Education   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Campuswide Honors Program   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Undergraduate Research   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   UCI CalTeach   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Libraries   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Study Abroad Center   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Summer Session   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Academic Calendars   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Academic Senate   
																		
								
										  
										 
						    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
													
				  Research  				
										
														    Office of Research   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Faculty Profiles   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Postdoctoral Scholars   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Applied Innovation   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Invention Transfer Group   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Undergraduate Research   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Graduate Research   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Research Centers &amp; Units   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   UCOP Office of Research   
																		
								
										  
										 
						    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
					
		
													
				  Community  				
										
														    Arts   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Athletics   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   K-12 Programs   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																
						   Youth Camps   						
													
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Campus Events Calendar   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Conference &amp; Event Services   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Hospital   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Medical Services   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Clinical Trials   
																		
								
										  
								
    	
    		
	
									 
				
									    Prospective Students   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Current Students   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Alumni   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Faculty &amp; Staff   
																		
								
											
									    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
												   Parents   
																		
								
										  
		  
						    
		
    				
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
								  Donate  to UCI   
										
		
					 Orange County    --° 
	
			 
		 
	 


 
				 
					 
						 
			
		   	
								 
				
						 
							
											 Search 
								 
									
									
								 
							
						 
					 
				 
			 
	
		
		
	
  
		 
			 
				   Home  					
				
				
						
				
						
				  Privacy  
							  
		 
	 
   
			 Privacy and Legal Notice 
		   
	
	    
						
						
						
    		
						
																									  Policy text  
										
    									 
		
    							
								
						
							    
			
				
		
	 
		 
			
			 University Communications, University of California, Irvine is committed to protecting the privacy and accuracy of your personally identifiable information to the extent possible, subject to provisions of state and federal law. Other than as required by laws that guarantee public access to certain types of information, or in response to subpoenas or other legal instruments that authorize disclosure, personally identifiable information is not disclosed without your consent. 
 Information Collection and Use 
 Categories of personally identifiable information collected by Web pages managed or maintained by University Communications, University of California, Irvine or by other entities affiliated with the University of California, Irvine, may include: your Internet location (Internet domain and IP address), type of browser and operating system used to access our site, date and time our site was visited, pages visited on our site, search terms used on our search engines, along with information you use to fill out forms such as: name, email address, address, birthday, student ID number, social security number, credit card number and ucinetid. This personally identifiable information is used to respond to user inquiries. Article IX, Section 9 of the California Constitution grants authority to the University of California to maintain this information. 
 In order to keep you informed of such activities as campus programs, symposia and/or special events, we may use personal information collected from Web pages for the purpose of future communication back to online enrollees. Such e-mail notification will be conducted in conformance with  University of California and campus policies implementing anti-spam laws  (pdf). 
 Additionally, the Web server collects, at least temporarily, the following information: Internet Protocol (IP) address of computer being used; Web pages requested; referring Web page; browser used; date and time. This information is collected to monitor your navigation of our Web pages. We may use browser-IP-address information and anonymous-browser history to report information about site accesses and for profiling purposes. This information is generally used to improve Web presentation and utilization. We also may use IP address information for troubleshooting purposes. 
 These Web pages may use cookies in order to deliver Web content specific to individual's Web navigation interests or to keep track of online transactions. 
 Disclosure of Collected Information 
 University Communications, University of California, Irvine will not disclose or share, without your consent, personally identifiable information, except for certain explicit circumstances in which disclosure may be required by law. Nor will University Communications, University of California, Irvine, distribute or sell your personally identifiable information to third-party organizations. 
 Updating Personal Information 
 Questions regarding your options to review, modify or delete previously provided personal information should be directed to  webmaster@uci.edu . 
 Policy Changes 
 This privacy policy has been created and approved by University Communications, University of California, Irvine. Any revisions to this privacy policy will be posted at this URL. You may submit inquiries about this policy to  webmaster@uci.edu . 
 Links to Other Sites 
 You may encounter links to Web pages of entities not managed or maintained by University Communications, University of California, Irvine. Those Web pages may have privacy policies that differ from this one. You also may encounter links to Web sites of organizations not directly affiliated with the University of California, Irvine. Please be aware that the University of California, Irvine is not responsible for the information practices of external organizations. We recommend you review the privacy statements of each Web page that collects personal information. 
		 
	 
	
				
		 
		
					 
	 
		  

					
				
					 
																		      Facebook   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																													     Twitter   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																													     YouTube   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																													     Instagram   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																													     Flickr   
																										     Social Media Directory   
																										  
										
				
					 
																		    UCI Gmail   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Webmail   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   EEE   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																													
								   Work at UCI   								
																				    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Emergency Preparedness   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Disability Services   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Office of the Chancellor   
																										     University of California   
																										  
											  
			  
													
				
					 
																		    Feedback   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
					
						
	
							
		
																													
								   Privacy Policy   								
																				    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Media Inquiries   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Accreditation Information   
																											    
	
    	
    		
	
	
    		
		
	
			
		
																						   Clery Act   
																										  
						
		
		
				 
						 
						 University of California, Irvine 
						  Irvine, CA 92697 						  949-824-5011 											 
						 
									
    			
    		
	
											
					  
					 
		  
	 

     
         

		  © 2017 UC Regents  
         
     
 
</body> 