 Introduction to the Irvine Research Unit in Software (IRUS)<body>

 
  

  Activities and Events 

IRUS sponsors a range of activities to meet the needs of various groups
in the software engineering field. These activities are designed to foster 
a sense of community, provide a forum for idea and information exchange, 
solve specific technical problems, serve as an outreach to the software
community at large, facilitate joint research projects, and stimulate 
in-depth discussion on topical areas of interest to the community.
 



  
  
 
 
Networking and Roundtable Meetings 
   
Monthly networking and roundtable meetings are designed to bring
together software practitioners and researchers to investigate and 
discuss topics of interest. Attendees find community building and 
networking to be an invaluable benefit.
     
      Southern California Software Process Improvement Network (SPIN)  

	The Southern California SPIN is a community of software practitioners
	and researchers that gathers monthly on the UC Irvine campus to 
	investigate and discuss topics of interest in the area of software 
	process.

 
     Bay Area Roundtable 
     (BART)  
	BART meetings, held in Palo Alto, are organized into topical
	series and are geared towards technical practitioners. 	
   
  
 Symposia   
The purpose of IRUS symposia is to bring together researchers and
practitioners for a day of information sharing. Symposia feature refereed 
papers and presentations, invited speaker and keynotes, panel discussions, 
debates, demonstrations, and/or posters.
 
     
     California Software Symposium (CSS)  (Formerly ISS) 

	The California Software Symposium (CSS) is an annual symposium,
	cosponsored by IRUS and 
	 
	USC's  
	 
	Center for Software Engineering.  
	This one-day meeting features high quality peer reviewed papers 
	and presentations. The CSS Program Committee reviews submissions, 
	plans the program, and provides direction.




	
 	

 

    
 
	Focused Technology Symposia   
	IRUS sponsors periodic technology symposia focused on a particular
	topic.  Participation from the local community in the form of 
	presentations on new approaches, positive and negative experience 
	reports, and panel discussions is highlighted. 
   
 
  
 
 
Special Events and Activities    
IRUS sponsors a variety of one-time events such as workshops and special
meetings and co-sponsors or provides support for various national and
international conferences and symposia.
 
 
 
 
TWIST - The Workshop series on Internet-scale Software Technologies 
 
 
  

The TWIST series aims to gather participants from industry and academia
who are researching or developing software
technologies that scale to the Internet. TWIST provides a forum for
discussion and enables quick dissemination of current ideas
within a well-targeted audience. The goals of the workshop series are
developing a better understanding among the different
communities of interest, improved definition of requirements for scaling
to the Internet, better appreciation of the application
domains that require or benefit from this approach, and suggestions for
fruitful research directions.
  
These workshops are held annually in the summer months at the
University of California, Irvine. 
  

    
 
The Workshop on Internet-scale Software Technologies (TWIST 99) ,  
     August 19-20, 1999  
    
 The Workshop on Internet-Scale Event Notification,
     (WISEN) , July 13-14, 1998
         

   
 
Research Partnerships    

Research partnerships are relationships typically between an individual
company and an individual faculty member, focused around a specific project 
or topic. The focus is often on collaboration to solve problems of mutual 
interest. In some cases companies financially sponsor a specific research 
project which is conducted at UCI. In some cases the focus is on transitioning 
technology to the company.  Other projects may focus on UCI usage of 
corporate technology. Still others are directed at site visits for information 
exchange, consulting, or arranging summer internships for students. 


  

    Schedule of Events, Flyers, Mailing Lists  

The IRUS 
  schedule of events 
includes flyers for SPIN, BART, symposia, and other
special events. 
  
Flyers are also available directly via the IRUS
 
electronic and postal mailing lists. 
  
 Back to the IRUS home page 
   
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science   
University of California, Irvine  
Irvine, CA 92697-3425
 

</body> 