 CHIME: An Efficient Error-Tolerant Chinese Pinyin Input Method<body> 
		  
		    
			  
			 CHIME: An Efficient Error-Tolerant Chinese Pinyin Input Method               
				  
				    
					 Yabin Zheng  1   
				    
				    
				 Chen Li  2  
					 Maosong Sun  1   
                  
				 1 Department of Computer Science, Tsinghua University   2 Department of Computer Science, University of California, Irvine	        
                                 A paper to appear in  IJCAI 2011 . 
                                 Paper in  PDF .
			  
			  
			   Abstract  
			   Chinese Pinyin input methods are very important for Chinese language
				 processing. In many cases, users may make typing errors. For example, a user wants to type
				 in "shenme" (什么, meaning "what" in English) but may type in "shenem" instead.
				 Existing Pinyin input methods fail in converting such a Pinyin sequence with errors
				 to the right Chinese words. To solve this problem, we developed an efficient error-tolerant
				 Pinyin input method called "CHIME" that can handle typing errors. By incorporating state-of-the-art
				 techniques and language-specific features, the method achieves a better performance
				 than state-of-the-art input methods. It can efficiently find relevant words
				 in milliseconds for an input Pinyin sequence. 			  
			 
			 
			   Framework 
                           For an input Pinyin sequence with typing errrors, CHIME works in three steps: 
                            Detect mistyped Pinyins that are not included in the predefined Pinyin dictionary. 
			     For each mistyped Pinyin, CHIME find top-k similar candidate Pinyins. 
			     CHIME converts the corrected Pinyin sequence to the most likely sequence of Chinese words. 
			    
			 
			    
                         
                         Evaluation Dataset 
			 Bellow are the datasets used in the study.  (To see the text properly in your browser, please make sure to change the encoding of your browser to UTF-8.) 
			   inputPinyin : contains the 2,000 input Pinyin sequences (679 sequences contain at least one typo). 
			    outputHanzi : contains the corresponding Chinese word sequences that users intend to type in. 
			    SogouResult : contains the conversion results from  Sogou  .  
			    CHIMEResult : contains the conversion results from CHIME. 
			  
                          

                         Just for Fun! 
			  Check  this page  (in Chinese) as a motivation of our research! :-) 

                         
                         Acknowledgments  
          		 Most of the work was done while Yabin Zheng was visiting
			UCI. We thank Alexander Behm and Shengyue Ji for their
			insightful discussions at UCI. This work is partially supported
			by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No.
			60873174 and 60828004).  	
                         
		    
	   
 
 


 
  CHIME: An Efficient Error-Tolerant Chinese Pinyin Input Method CHIME: 一种高效的容错中文拼音输入法  
 
     
 
   
 Type in Pinyins with errors, and we are trying to predict what you intend to type in. 
If you type in "shenem", we can find "什么". If you type in "xiexe", we can find "谢谢". 
如果您输入的拼音序列中包含错误，我们可以将错误进行纠正并转换为您所需要的汉字序列。 
例如，当您想输入"谢谢"(xiexie)或"shenme"(shenme)，却误输入为"xiexe"或"shenem"，我们可以将您需要的目标词条返回。  
  
 

  
 



 
  
  

  
 


</body> 