 A breath of fresh air @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 A breath of fresh air 

 
 

 
 When Tony Givargis and his team set out to build a better lung simulator, they discovered that software wasn’t enough. 



 
   



 
Much of computer science professor Tony Givargis’ work concerns what is known as “cyberphysical systems” – computer systems that interact with the physical world. “The simplest cyberphysical system we see everywhere is that thing,” Givargis says, pointing to the thermostat in his office. “The thermostat is a computer: It’s sensing the temperature in the room, and it’s commanding the vents, the heating, the cooling and so on.”
 
 
In July 2010, Givargis and his research partners — including Frank Vahid, a professor at UC Riverside, and Bailey Miller, a UCR graduate student — began working on a project that involved a far more complicated cyberphysical system. Their mission, as they glibly described it in their presentation about the project: “Building Fake Body Parts.”
 
 
CareFusion, a Yorba Linda-based medical devices manufacturer, asked Givargis and his team to come up with a new way to test respirators — the machines found in hospital ICUs that breathe for those who are unable to breathe on their own.
 
 
“How do you test a device like that?” Givargis asks. “Well, of course, you can bring a person and say, ‘You sit down and stop breathing for a few minutes because we’re going to attach this thing to you and test it out,’ but that’s not going to work,” he says with a chuckle. It turns out that the FDA-approved method for testing high-tech respirators is a mechanical apparatus with a couple of balloons on it. 
 
 
When Givargis first saw this thing, the contrast was startling. “You can see this electronic, sophisticated, state-of-the-art device, into which so much engineering effort has gone on one side of the table, and then you have this very basic machine — something that wouldn’t have looked strange 200 years ago. We said, we’ve got to be able to do better.”
 
 
Conceptually, Givargis and his team found that simulating human breathing isn’t all that difficult. “It’s all mathematical,” he says. “It’s basically a large set of differential equations.”
 
 
The problem was one of speed. “In order to emulate how a lung functions, you need to solve these equations at a very high rate — let’s say, 100 times a second, you need to solve 1,000 complicated math equations,” he says. “If you take math equations and write them in your favorite programming language, and then try to run it on a desktop computer, it works, and it computes the right result — it’s just hundreds of times slower than you’d need it to be for real-time interaction.”
 
 
The simplest way to describe the difference between computer science and computer engineering is to break it down to software-vs.-hardware: Computer science involves the former, computer engineering the latter. To find the solution to the speed problem Givargis and his team discovered that they needed to do both.
 
 
“Forget about code, forget about running it on a processor: Executing one instruction at a time is just too slow,” Givargis continues. “We needed massive parallelism, and a circuit is as parallel as you want to make it — it can have a million multipliers all doing multiplication simultaneously.”
 
 
In essence, they wrote a program that could take these equations, and spit out a circuit on the other end. “And then that circuit we mapped onto an FPGA — a Field Programmable Gate Array circuit.” These reprogrammable chips turned out to be the answer.
 
 
Givargis also notes that the device they created was itself a cyberphysical system. “We attached the pumps and such we need to get the pressure and air flow going, and then hooked that up to the ventilator and showed that the ventilator’s fooled: It thinks it’s attached to a real human being.” Their mockup could also do without the “physical” part of “cyberphysical”: “We could directly connect to their data bus, and bypass the sensing and actuation.
 
 
By the time the project concluded in June 2013, the mockup worked beautifully — but it isn’t likely to replace the old balloon device anytime soon. That would have involved an arduous FDA approval process. “Being professors, we were kind of lucky in a sense that we didn’t have to do that,” Givargis says with a smile. “We were really interested in showing that it can be done. We had zero interest in going through all the red tape and bureaucracy it would take to get the digital mockup approved as a standard test.”
 
 
For their part, CareFusion “appreciated having this other thing for internal use only, which allowed them to more efficiently get through the steps leading up to the approval process,” Givargis says. “I think we saved them time -- at least, we proved the concept that they can save a lot of time by using this internally as a design aid. And they’ve very happy about this.”


 
  
   — Story by Ted B. Kissell  
   — Photo by Robert Farmer 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 