  ICS 125 Initial Survey<body>
 
  
Information and Computer Science 125:   Project in Software System Design
 

Fall Quarter, 1999  
Lecture: TTh 9:30 - 10:50  
Location:  CS 180  
Course code:    36165    
Discussion Section (REQUIRED): MWF: 12:00 - 12:50  
Location:  CS 180  
Course code:    36168     

 
Please fill in the form below with honest answers.
This information is confidential and will   not   affect your grade in any
way, unless you do not fill it out or it is discovered that you have been
dishonest in your responses.   The information will be used to assign you to
an appropriate project team.

 Personal Information 

   Name:  

  Student ID:  

  Home phone:  

  Preferred email address:  

  Do you plan to attend graduate school? 
	If so, to what degree do you aspire and in what area?  
	If not, what are your professional plans?   
  Why are you taking this course (e.g., 
	why did you pick this project course? how does it relate to your goals?
	what do you expect to get out of this course?)?    
  Academic Goals and Experience 

   Expected graduation date: 

  Overall GPA (out of 4.0): 

  ICS-course GPA (out of 4.0): 

  Additional major or emphasis: 

  Please specify your instructor, quarter, and grade for the
following courses: 
 ICS 52: instructor: quarter: grade:  
 ICS 121: instructor: quarter: grade:   
  ICS courses currently enrolled in this quarter: 
 
  Did you do a function-oriented or an object-oriented design in
ICS 121?
 
  Professional Experience 

   Number years working full-time (computer field): 
	Please describe this work experience:      Number years working part-time (computer field): 
	Please describe this work experience:     Have you ever worked on a software development project? 
	If so, briefly describe the team size and task:      Programming experience:
  Languages with which you are familiar (e.g., have used effectively):    Languages in which you have written a program over 1000 lines:    Number of programs over 1000 lines you have written:   For what application domains have you written software:    Software development tools with which you are familiar
(e.g., have used effectively):     Operating systems with which you are familiar:       Preferences (optional) 

   List one or two people in the course
with whom you would like to work on the project:     List anyone in the course with whom you absolutely could not
work:     List times that you ARE NOT available to meet with your team:   
NOTE:  since everyone   must   register for the discussion section you WILL be
available to meet with your team at that time.  Failure to meet this requirement may
result in dismissal from the class.   Please initial here to indicate you have read
and understood this requirement:          
  Department of Information and Computer 
Science , 
 University of California, Irvine CA 92697-3425
 
</body> 