 PMVS by Jia Chen<body> Patch-based Multi View Stereo      Introduction  This
project is an implementation of PAMI 2010 paper "Accurate, dense, and
robust multi-view stereopsis" by Yasutaka Furukawa and Jean Ponce. The
system is able to reconstruct patches from a set of calibrated images,
by going through the match -&gt; expand -&gt; filter procedure. Some of
the results are shown as below. Since currently only the patch
reconstruction part of the algorithm (section III of the paper) is
implemented, the polygonal mesh cannot be generated yet. Besides that,
considering that there are still a big space to be improved for my
current patch reconstruction result, I expect everything to be ready in
early March.         Source code (Feb 22, 2014 version)   Patches generated for Skull data set (Feb 22, 2014)  can be viewed by PatchViewer provided by  PMVS    Algorithm and Implementation Details  Step 1. Initial Match  1.1 Feature Detection  For
each images, blob and corner features are detected by Harris and
DoG operators, as shown below.  Currently, for convenience, this
part is implemented with OpenCV (Version 2.6.4), which lead my
implementation dependent on OpenCV, so I plan to replace it with my own
code later.         1.2 Feature Matching  Since
all the images are calibrated, for each feature f0 in image 0 (as shown
in the left figure), we can determine the epipolar line in another
image i from their corresponding projection matrices (shown as green
line in the figure below). And only the features (1) fall on the
epipolar line and (2) with the same type (Harris or DoG) as the
reference feature wil be considered as matching candidates.  For
the epipolar geometry calculation, I tried to use OpenCV at first, but
the results produce by OpenCV triangulation methods seems quite
problematic. So I had to create my own implementation, and found the
bible book "Multiple view geometry in computer vision" an excellent
reference for implementing this.         Left:
A feature detected in view 0, Right: the epipolar line are shown as
green,  while the matching candidates are red points   1.3 Initial Match  As
shown in the figure above, there are often multiple candidates which
meet geometry constraints, so we still have to filter out those fake
positives with photometric discrepancy function as eq (1) in the paper.
 For this part, I generally follows the algorithm below. Except for
the Patch Optimization (Refine) part, while the conjugate gradient
method was applied by the paper using Wnlib library, I met some
problems when compiling Wnlib under Windows. So as a temporary
solution, I applied a simple searching method (iteratively search for
minimum point in the nearby value space) instead, which I think
although slower, but should have the same effect as conjugate gradient
method.         Step 2. Expansion   As
the initial match has only a sparse set of patches, expansion is
important to produce patches dense enough for reconstruction. In this
stage, I followed the algorithm below. And since most of the patches
are actually added into patch list in this stage, expansion took the
most of processing time (70% percent of total time).          Step 3. Filtering Currently
filtering is the most problematic part of the system, some outliers are
not filtered out properly.  A big improvement is expected to be
done.   Known Issues and Future Work  As the project is still on going, the tasks below are to be finished:  1. The filtering issue mentioned above.  2. Polygonal mesh reconstruction.  3.
Performance improvement. This implementation runs over an hour to
produce patches, while official PMVS needs less than 20 minutes. I
guess that the reasons for the performance issue include:  (1) The
searching method I applied in patch optimization is much slower than
conjugate gradient method (2) PMVS might apply multi thread (or GPU ? I
am not sure) (3) Some calculation duplication in my implementation  4.
PatchViewer. Currently the 3D views are rendered using PatchViewer
provided by PMVS, as a customized viewer will provide more convenience
for debugging and testing, I plan to implement my own PatchViewer in
next step.  References:  1.
Furukawa Y, Ponce J. Accurate, dense, and robust multiview
stereopsis[J]. Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, IEEE
Transactions on, 2010, 32(8): 1362-1376. 2. R. I. Hartley and A. Zisserman,Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision. Cambridge University Press, 2004. </body> 