 Premises and Hypothesis 
                  Next:   Dissertation Contributions 
 Up:   Introduction 
  Previous:   Software Uncertainty Modeling 
  
   Premises and Hypothesis  
 
   
  
To arrive at the approach taken in this dissertation,
one must follow the statements in this section.
Most statements, such as ``software complexity hinders
its understanding'' or ``users get disoriented in
large hypertext spaces,'' are either widely accepted
or substantiated later.  These statements therefore
constitute the  premises  for this dissertation.
One statement, however, is less accepted and requires
further investigation: ``Explicit modeling of
software uncertainties improves human judgment and
decision making during software development.''
This statement therefore constitutes the
 hypothesis  for this dissertation and will be
further elaborated and validated.
  
Our initial observation is that software is extremely
complex, i.e., that ``software systems are perhaps the
most intricate of man's handiworks'' [ Bro95 ].
Software complexity is not only ubiquitous, it is also
 intrinsic :
``The complexity of software is an essential property,
not an accidental one'' [ Bro87 ].  ``By essential
we mean that we may master this complexity, but we can
never make it go away'' [ Boo94 ].
Complexity hinders software understanding, yet understanding
must be afforded if development is to be successful.
  
To manage complexity, software development concerns
are often separated in time and space.  Thus, software
is typically developed in distinct phases by different
teams of developers.  Large-scale software is often
long-lived and delivered in multiple version, thereby
comprising a family of related programs [ Par79 ].
  
The product of software development is typically a
large and complex collection of software elements of
diverse types.  Software artifact collections often
contain not only millions of source code lines,
but also versioned releases, volumes of user 
manuals and documentation, requirements and design
specifications, test cases and test results, and so forth.
Moreover, these software objects are typically
integrated and correlated within themselves and
with each other in surprisingly intricate and subtle
ways [ SZ92 ].  This poses
substantial impediments to software understanding,
particularly with respect to traceability,
visualization, and navigation issues, thereby
leading to the following research question.
  
 Research Question :
   Given the intricacy and complexity of software
artifact relationships, what can be done to
improve traceability, visualization, and
navigation of large artifact collections?
 
 
As a first step, it is proposed that software systems
be viewed as large hypertexts, since hypertext offers
a coherent and consistent metaphor for viewing both
inter- as well as intra-artifact relationships
(cf. [ ZO95 ,  SZ92 ]).
Here, it suffices to define hypertext informally
as providing node-and-link views and navigation
of software artifact collections.  Hypertext is
defined more formally and completely in
Chapter    .  We therefore contend
that a hypertext metaphor of software artifacts
and relations should improve developer's ability
to trace or track related elements in large and
complex software spaces.
  
Despite the above, hypertext is no ``silver bullet''
for relieving software artifact complexities and
uncertainties.  Specifically, hypertext introduces
several concerns regarding its efficacy for
software engineering [ ZO95 ].
Here, we are particularly concerned with the
well-known navigation problem of user confusion
and disorientation in large hypertext spaces as
well as the fact that hypertext systems generally
are not designed with software engineering in mind.
This means that hypertext does not necessarily
address the unique needs of software developers
and users nor does it model or make use of the
unique characteristics of software systems.
Additional means should, therefore, be provided to further
facilitate understanding of software artifact collections.
The following statements concern this facilitation.
  
We claim that software engineering is fraught
with uncertainties.  Software uncertainties
contribute significantly to the overall complexity 
and unpredictability of software development.
Like complexity, uncertainty is inherent to the
engineering of software systems.  This observation
is summarized succinctly in [ ZRK96 ] as the 
 Maxim of Uncertainty in Software Engineering :
    
Uncertainty is inherent and inevitable in software processes
and products.
 
 
 
Examples of software uncertainties abound - many are provided
in this dissertation.  Starting in Chapter Four, we focus on
uncertainties associated with developers' confidence levels
in software artifacts, including, among others, requirements
specifications, design elements, code modules, and testing
information.  These confidence levels fluctuate frequently
during development.  Their modeling should, therefore,
include a scheme for confidence revision and updating.
  
We now arrive at the high-level statement of the hypothesis
for this dissertation.
  
 High-level Research Hypothesis :
   Explicitly modeling uncertainty improves human judgment and
decision making during software development. 
 
 
This hypothesis is too vague to be investigated and
validated directly.  Instead, we require a more specific
formulation, including a specific technique for software
uncertainty modeling.
To model software uncertainties, we turn to artificial
intelligence research in modeling and management of
uncertainty.  We select a specific uncertainty modeling
technique called Bayesian belief networks [ Pea88 ].
Detailed reasons for this choice are provided in Chapter Four.
  
Here, it suffices to say that Bayesian networks
offer a clear conceptual model of causality among related
elements and include algorithms for belief revision and
updating.  This leads to our specific hypothesis below.
The hypothesis speaks in terms of software artifacts,
which include, among others, requirements elements,
design nodes, code modules, and test information,
relationships among those artifacts, established as
part of the development process, and confidence
levels, which reflect developer confidences in
certain qualities and properties of software artifacts.
  
 Specific Research Hypothesis :
   Bayesian-network models of software artifact uncertainties improves
understanding of associated confidence levels, compared to simply
following linked information, ultimately leading to better human
decision making.
 
 
In the long run, we believe that proper adoption and use of
uncertainty modeling techniques will improve human judgment
and decision making during software development.  For the
purposes of this dissertation, we focused on the specific
hypothesis above and took steps toward its validation,
as follows:
   
An existing software system was selected as case study.
The system of choice, called CEquencer, is currently
under development at Beckman Instruments in Fullerton,
CA.  CEquencer is designed to control and communicate
with various hardware devices that in turn are used by 
biologists, chemists, and other scientists to separate
laboratory specimens into molecular constituents in
order to determine their DNA sequences.
CEquencer software artifacts are described in Chapter Five.  
CEquencer requirements were investigated throughly,
and a hypertext model as well as a Bayesian-network
model of those requirements were constructed.  
A key subsystem of CEquencer, called FSM Run, was
investigated thoroughly, resulting in a hypertext
model of software artifacts, including all FSM Run
code modules as well as related requirements.  
Software uncertainty information was collected for FSM Run
artifacts.  The information was elicited from Beckman
experts and developers and organized in a Bayesian network.  
Our main hypothesis was evaluated against FSM Run code
modules and related requirements, as identified in (2)
above.  In a questionnaire session with the Beckman team,
developers were asked to trace artifacts and associated
confidence levels with and without the Bayesian-network
representation of confidence values.  
Results were gathered for the case study and analyzed
for statistical significance.  Results of the
questionnaire session are summarized in Chapter Six.
                    Next:   Dissertation Contributions 
 Up:   Introduction 
  Previous:   Software Uncertainty Modeling 
   
 Hadar Ziv  
Fri Jun 20 16:22:31 PDT 1997 
 
</body> 