 Chimera 2.0 Tutorial:Creating a Chimera Website<body>
 

 Creating a Chimera Website 

   
 You are now ready to create your Chimera website.  You can make
a directory which will be the root directory of your Chimera website.
You can name it anything you like, and place it anywhere you like, but 
if you want it to be visible across the WWW, then you should place it 
in the namespace of your webserver. (In other words, in a directory 
where the server will allow outside access.) 
 

  For the purposes of this tutorial, create a directory called 
 chimera_tutorialws  (you may place this one anywhere you like).  
This will be where you be running the 
Chimera website from, and it will eventually contain the data 
for your website.  Now do the following to start your Chimera Website:
 

   For Unix Systems do the following:
	 
	From the directory chimera_tutorialws start the Chimera
	Website by executing the program, hyperwebManager.
	(Note: this image is from the testing machine used, also 
	the command hyperwebManager is provided by chimera.jar)
	   

       For Windows NT do the following:
	 
	From the directory chimera_tutorialws start the Chimera
	Website by typing the following in the command line interface:
	  java chimera.hyperwebManager 
    Note: The Hyperweb Manager considers the directory where it is started from
to be the root of your Chimera Website.  Chimera 2.0 distinguishes directories 
below the root as hyperwebs.
Please start
the Hyperweb Manager only in in a directory which you want as the root for your 
Chimera Website.  Starting the Hyperweb Manager from another directory 
may cause a degradation in Chimera's performance.
 

  Once started, you should have the following servers appear in your
display:
 

   The Hyperweb Manager
	   
       The Hyperweb Server
	   
       The Applet Server
	   
    Note: The above three screen-shots are from a Unix environment, other
operating systems will have slightly different window setups.
 

 
Congratulations, you have successfully started the Chimera website.
These three servers pictured in the screen-shots provide the services 
for the Chimera Website. You may
may now proceed with doing some operations to enhance your website such as
creating some hyperwebs so that clients can use Chimera.
 

</body> 