 ICS Student Organizations @ Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  Student resources  


     
 Student Organizations 

 
 

   
 The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences not only offers world-class facilities, faculty and research, it is also home to numerous vibrant student groups. From coding competitions to designing computer games to professional networking, the ICS clubs provide many ways for undergraduates to engage with the school and their fellow students. 
  Association of Computer Machinery   The UC Irvine Chapter of the Association of Computer Machinery ( ACM ) is dedicated to advance computing as a science and a profession. They work toward accommodating the needs of students as an investment for brilliant minds in academia and successful men and women in business. ACM's active competition participants train rigorously to compete in nationally renowned competitions, including IEEExtreme, HackerRank and ICPC. The club also evaluates and supports student project proposals. 
  Hack    Hack  is an organization that reclaims the word “hack” to bring the word back to its original meaning to solve a problem quickly and effectively. The organization aims to cultivate a community of technical students at UCI. They sponsor “hackathons” that encourages students to build amazing technical designs. With a plethora of open-source tools, online courses and community resources, there is ample opportunity for anyone to bring their ideas to reality. 
  ICS Student Council    The official student government for the Donald Bren School of ICS, the ICS Student Council ( ICSSC ) seeks to build a strong community, enhance the quality of student life and ensure great jobs for students. ICSSC hosts career information nights with companies such as Google, Blizzard, Accenture and numerous others; organizes training sessions in which students teach each other about new and upcoming technologies; and performs resume-writing and interview-training sessions. ICSSC also puts on numerous events throughout the year, including Web Jam, a weeklong team competition in which teams of students create fully functional web applications; the Reverse Career Fair; and the popular ICS Day, a festival featuring music, dancing, food, projects and prizes. 
  Management Information Student Society    Management Information Student Society ( MAISS ) aims to provide Business Information Management (BIM) majors and those interested in business and technology with career opportunities, an academic community and a strong social network. The club strives to strengthen the BIM student community at UC Irvine; foster long-standing relationships among peers and faculty within UCI's ICS and the Paul Merage School of Business; and to provide members with opportunities for career and academic development. 
  Video Game Development Club    The Video Game Development Club ( VGDC ) is dedicated to anyone interested in video games and game development, with the particular objective of supporting students in developing portfolios, enhancing skills and connecting to industry professionals. Its mission is to give students the opportunity to break into the industry by building members' technical expertise and establishing a professional network with other game developers. VGDC always has an active set of projects on which anyone can choose to work to learn new game design techniques, hone artistic skills, or simply learn about new game development platforms. Also, each year the club sponsors Game Developers Week, bringing in a series of speakers from such big names in gaming as Blizzard, Atari, Obsidian, Fireforge and Riot Games. 
  Women in Information and Computer Sciences    Women in Information and Computer Sciences ( WICS ) is a social and professional nonprofit organization at UCI established to encourage women to pursue a college degree and a successful career in the computer science field. WICS provides professional and technical workshops, academic tutoring, leadership and team-building projects, as well as numerous opportunities for women to connect with companies and alumni.In April 2013, WICS presented the inaugural (init)together Southern California Conference for Women in Computing. The event drew more than 300 attendees from throughout Southern California and featured a series of panel discussions and workshops. The sold-out event also included a career expo with such companies as Google, Intel and Microsoft, and a mentorship program that connected female computing students and women entering industry with faculty and professionals in the region. 


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 