 Geometry Research Groups<body>

 
   
 
  
Geometry Research Groups
 
This page collects pointers to home pages of research groups working in
discrete and computational geometry or related areas.

    
     U. Bern, Forschungsgruppe Computergeometrie 

    
     U. Cantabria, Computational Algebra and Geometry 

    
     Duke U., Center for Geometric Computing 

    
     U. East Anglia, Computational Geometry Project 

    
     Euler Institute for Discrete Mathematics and its Applications 

    
     FernUniversität Hagen, Gesellschaft für Informatik -
     Fachgruppe 0.1.2, Algorithmische Geometrie 

    
     Hungarian Acad. of Sciences, Mathematical Inst.,
     Convex and Computational Geometry Research Group 

    
     Iowa State U. Visualization Laboratory 

    
     U. Kaiserslautern, Arbeitsgruppe Computer Aided Design und
     Algorithmische Geometrie 

    
     McGill U. Computational Geometry Laboratory 

    
     U. Massachusetts, Amherst, Center for Geometry, Analysis, Numerics,
     and Graphics 

    
     U. Minnesota Geometry Center 

    
     U. Münster, Algorithmische Geometrie 

    
     Nagoya U., Hirata Lab. 

    
     NASA Langley Res. Ctr., Geometry Laboratory 

    
     U. North Carolina, Chapel Hill, Research in Geometric, Symbolic and
     Scientific Computing 

    
     Northwestern U., Geometric Object Manipulation/Modeling System Project 

    
     CNR Pisa, Visual Computing Group 

    
     U. Politècnica de Catalynya, Research Group in Computational
     Geometry and Combinatorial Geometry 

    
     Queen's University Computational Geometry Laboratory 

    
     Rice U. Computer Graphics and Geometric Design Group 

    
     U. di Roma (Tre), Algorithms and Computational Geometry Group 

    
     INRIA Sophia Antipolis, PRISME - Geometry, Algorithms and Robotics 

    
     U. South Florida, Geometric Modeling and Computer Graphics 

    
     SUNY Stony Brook, Computational Geometry 

    
     Computational Geometry at U. Waterloo 
    
Part of
 Geometry in Action ,
a collection of applications of computational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Last update: . 
 </body> 