 The Geometry Junkyard: Software<body>

 
   
 
  
  
Software and Animations
 
I've included here pointers to downloadable software,
for interactive or animated geometry.
But I'm not generally including web applets or other code intended for
use while
browsing, because there's just so much of it and it's an integral
part of many of the pages I link to rather than drawing attention to
itself as software.
 
    Algorithmic
mathematical art , Xah Lee.
 
    Cinderella 
multiplatform Java system for compass-and-straightedge construction,
dynamic geometry demonstrations and
automatic theorem proving.
Ulli Kortenkamp and Jürgen Richter-Gebert, ETH Zurich.
 
    Circle
packing and discrete complex analysis .  Research by
Ken Stephenson including pictures, a bibliography, and downloadable circle packing
software.
 
    Cognitive Engineering
Lab , Java applets for exploring tilings, symmetry, polyhedra, and
four-dimensional polytopes.
 
    Dreamscope 
screen-saver module makes patterns with various Kaleidoscopic symmetries.
 
    DUST 
software for visualization of Voronoi diagrams, Delaunay triangulations,
minimum spanning trees, and matchings, U. Köln.
 
    Gavrog , a Java package for
visualizing 2d and 3d ornamental patterns with high degrees of symmetry.
 
    Geometria 
Java-based software for constructing and measuring polyhedra
by transforming and slicing predefined starting blocks.
 
    Geometric
Java applets  by Fergus C. Murray
produce screensaver-like interactive images.
See also his
 noninteractive
mathematical animations  and
 stills .
 
    Geometry
turned on -- making geometry dynamic .  A book on the use of
interactive software in teaching.
 
    GeoProof  interactive
geometry software including automated theorem proving methods.
 
    Great
math programs .  Xah Lee reviews mathematical software, focusing on
educational Macintosh applications.  Includes sections on geometric
visualization, fractals, cellular automata, and geometric puzzles.
 
   HypArr,
software for modeling and visualizing convex polyhedra and plane
arrangements,
now seems to be  incorporated as a module  in a larger
 Matlab library for multi-parametric analysis .
 
    Hyperbolic Geometry using Cabri 
 
    Hyperdimensional Java .
Several web applets illustrating high-dimensional concepts, by
Ishihama Yoshiaki.
 
    HyperGami  program for unfolding polyhedra, also described in
 this
article from the American Scientist .
 
    Information on
Pentomino Puzzles  and  Information on Polyominoes , from
F. Ruskey's Combinatorial Object Server.
 
   Interactive Delaunay triangulation and Voronoi diagrams:  VoroGlide , Icking, Klein, Köllner, Ma, Hagen.  D. Watson, CSIRO, Australia .  Baker et al., Brown U.   Paul Chew, Cornell U.   
    Java
applets on mathematics , Walter Fendt.
 
    Java gallery of geometric algorithms , Z. Zhao, Ohio State U.
 
    Java quadric surface raytracer , P. Flavin.
 
    Jenn 
open-source software for visualizing Cayley graphs of Coxeter groups
as symmetric 4-dimensional polytopes.
 
    Kaleidotile 
software for visualizing tilings of the sphere, Euclidean plane, and
hyperbolic plane.
 
    Kali ,
software for making symmetrical drawings based on any of the 17 plane
tiling groups.
 
    kD-tree
demo . Java applet by Jacob Marner.
 
    LightSource 
sacred geometry software.
 
    Line
designs for the computer .  Jill Britton brings to the web material
from John Millington's 1989 book on geometric patterns formed by
stitching yarn through cardboard.  The Java simulation of a Spectrum
computer running Basic programs is a little (ok a lot) clunky, and froze
Mozilla when I tried it, but there's also plenty of interesting static content.
 
    Logical art and the
art of logic , pentomino art, philosophy, and DOS software,
G. Albrecht-Buehler.
 
    Manipula
Math with Java . Interactive applets to help students grasp the
meaning of mathematical ideas.
 
    MicroGeometry 
volume and surface area calculator for the Palm.
 
    Minesweeper
on Archimedean polyhedra , Robert Webb.
 
    More
hyperbolic tilings  and software for creating them, J. Mount.
 
   Non-Euclidean games implemented in Shockwave by students in an
advanced high school geometry class:
 projective-plane asteroids ,
 hyperbolic
double-torus minesweeper , and
 cubical
fruitarian snake .
 
    Non-Euclidean
geometry with LOGO .  A project at Cardiff, Wales, for using the LOGO
programming language to help mathematics students visualise
non-Euclidean geometry.
 
    Oops 
image warper, based on three simple geometric transformations.
 
    Packing
results , D. Boll.  C code for finding dense packings of circles in
circles, circles in squares, and spheres in spheres.
 
    Peek , software for visualizing high-dimensional polytopes.
 
    Perron
Number Tiling Systems .
Mathematica software for computing fractals that tile the plane from
Perron numbers.
 
    Points on
a sphere .  Paul Bourke describes a simple random-start hill-climbing
heuristic for spreading points evenly on a sphere, with pretty pictures
and C source.
 
    Poly , Windows/Mac shareware
for exploring various classes of polyhedra including Platonic solids,
Archimedean solids, Johnson solids, etc.  Includes perspective views,
Shlegel diagrams, and unfolded nets.
 
    Polygon Puzzle 
open source polyomino and polyform placement solitaire game.
 
    Polyomino
applet , Wil Laan.
 
    Polyominoes
7.0  Macintosh shareware.
 
    Polytopia 
CD-ROMs on tessellations, polyhedra, honycombs, and polytopes.
 
    Postscript
geometry .
Bill Casselman uses postscript to motivate a course
in Euclidean geometry.
See also his  Coxeter group graph paper ,
and  Ed Rosten's
postscript doodles .
Beware, however, that postscript can not really represent
such basic geometric primitives as circles, instead approximating them
by splines.
 
    Prolog soma-cube puzzle program 
 
    ProtoZone 
interactive shockwave museum exhibits for exploring geometric concepts
such as symmetry, tiling, and wallpaper groups.
 
    Quicktime VR and mathematical visualization .
 
    Realizing a
Delaunay triangulation . Many authors have written Java code for computing
Delaunay triangulations of points. But Tim Lambert's applet does the
reverse: give it a triangulation, and it finds points for which that
triangulation is Delaunay.
 
    Reconstruction of a closed curve from its elliptic Fourier descriptor .
The ancient epicycle theory of planetary motion, animated in Java.
 
    Rectangular cartograms: the game .
Change the shape of rectangles (without changing their area) and group
them into larger rectangular and L-shaped units to fit them into a
given frame. Bettina Speckmann, TUE. Requires a browser with support for
Java SE 6.
 
    Vittoria Rezzonico's
Java applets .  Hypercube and polyhedron visualization, and circle
inversion patterns.  Requires both Java and JavaScript.
 
    Sensitivity analysis for traveling salesmen ,
C. Jones, U. Washington.
Still a good title, and now the geometry has been made more
entertaining with Java and VRML.
 
    SingSurf 
software for calculating singular algebraic curves and surfaces, R. Morris.
 
    SnapPea , powerful software for computing geometric properties of
knot complements and other 3-manifolds.
 
    Soma cube
applet .
 
    SpaceBric  building blocks
and Windows software based on a tiling of 3d space by congruent
tetrahedra.
 
    Sphere packing and kissing numbers .
How should one arrange circles or spheres
so that they fill space as densely as possible?
What is the maximum number of spheres that can simultanously touch
another sphere?
 
    Spiral
generator , web form for creating bitmap images of colored
logarithmic spirals.
      
    sqfig and sqtile ,
software by Eric Laroche for generating polyominoes and polyomino
tilings.
 
    Stella  and Stella4d,
Windows software for visualizing regular and semi-regular polyhedra and
their stellations in three and four dimensions, morphing them into each other, drawing unfolded nets for
making paper models, and exporting polyhedra to various 3d design packages.
 
    Stellations
of the dodecahedron  stereoscopically animated in Java by Mark Newbold.
 
    Wilson
Stothers' Cabri pages .
Geometric animations teaching projective conics,
hyperbolic geometry, and the Klein view of geometry as symmetry.
 
    SymmeToy ,
windows shareware for creating paint patterns, symmetry roses,
tessellated art and symmetrically decorated 3D polyhedron models.
 
    Taprats 
Java software for generating symmetric Islamic-style star patterns.
 
    3d-XplorMath 
Macintosh software for visualizing curves, surfaces, polyhedra,
conformal maps, and other planar and three-dimensional mathematical objects.
 
    TileDreams 
Windows software for creating symmetric patterns with rhombi.
 
    The tiling puzzle games of
OOG .  Windows and Java software for tangrams, polyominoes, and polyhexes.
 
    Touch-3d , commercial
software for unfolding 3d models into flat printouts, to be folded back
up again for quick prototyping and mock-ups.
 
    Ukrainian Easter Egg .
This zonohedron, computed by a  Mathematica notebook  I wrote, provides a lower bound for the complexity of the set of
 centroids of points with approximate weights .
   
   
    UMass Gang
library of knots, surfaces, surface deformation movies, and 
minimal surface meshing software .
 
    Uniform
polyhedra in POV-ray format , by Russell Towle.
 
      
 
    Virtual Image ,
makers of CD-ROMS of ray-traced mathematical animation.
 
    Visualizations of 4d hypercube  (Java applet).
 
    vZome 
zometool design software for OS X and Windows.
(Warning, web site may be down on off-hours.)
 
    Wallpaper
patterns , R. Morris.
Kaleidoscope-like Java applet for making and transforming symmetric
tilings out of uploaded photos.
 
    Wingeom ,
freeware Windows geometric construction software.
 
    WWW spirograph .
Fill in a form to specify radii,
and generate pictures by rolling one circle around another.
For more pictures of cycloids, nephroids, trochoids,
and related spirograph shapes, see David Joyce's
 Little Gallery of Roulettes .
 Anu Garg 
has implemented spirographs in Java.
 
    Yantram sacred art toolbox .
Software for creating various kinds of symmetric fractal mandala.
 
    yukiToy . Shockwave plugin software for pushing around a few reddish spheres in
your browser window. But what exactly is the point?
(They're spheres, they don't have one, I guess.)
 
     
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  Send email  if you
know of an appropriate page not listed here.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 