 Game Jam Winter 2012 @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Game Jam Winter 2012 

 
 

  Creating games from scratch in 7 days</strong> 
 
      Computer games science major Jason Ames Lee, producer for the winning team, 
       said his group was “concerned with the feeling of the game,” so 
       they incorporated such features as screen-shaking to enhance the experience 
       of gameplay.  
 
 
 There’s an asteroid in space, falling towards Earth. Your mission: Help the asteroid achieve maximum destructive impact by having it collect debris as it travels through space. Depending on your ability to collect debris as you steer the asteroid, you could decimate an entire continent or wipe out only one person.  
 Such is the premise of Massteroid, winner of this quarter’s Game Jam, a "build a video game in a week" tournament organized by the Video Game Development Club (VGDC) at UCI. 


 
 

  Tournament participants share their thoughts about Game Jam at the Unveiling Event. 
 


 
Competitors were randomly assigned to five groups at the start of the competition; each team of about 15 members was given one week to design a fully functional game that incorporates the theme of “growth.” An unveiling event was held 10 days later, with teams demonstrating their work and discussing their successes and challenges. (Click  here  to download and play the games.)  Judges included Bren School faculty and representatives from the game industry. Scores were based on design, aesthetics, “fun factor” and topic integration.
 
 
“Game Jam participants are essentially given a theme and a team, and are pushed out into the wilderness on their own,” incoming VGDC president and computer game science (CGS) major Justin Britch. “Creating a game from scratch in such a small amount of time leaves no room for slacking, and the level of competition is high — but so is the payoff. 
 
 
“After an intense week, students have a completed game that will help them get a job in the video game industry. At the conclusion of this most recent Game Jam, everyone agreed that we are making better, richer games with less experienced people, and that is a testament to our new freshman members.”
 
 
Current VGDC president Chris Lang, an informatics major, said the games — particularly the tournament champion — received high praise from the judges.
 
 
"Massteroid set the bar for what we expect out of VGDC projects,” said Lang. “The presentation was simple and crisp, but appropriate to the theme. The controls were intuitive and easy to jump into. And most importantly, the scope was small enough to ensure player success but expandable enough to allow for further development. Massteroid was universally praised by all of our industry  judges, some of who continue to play it in their offices.
 
 
“Even with the large influx this year of young and inexperienced game developers, mostly from the Bren School’s CGS degree program, the VGDC is still improving and is producing higher quality projects than ever before. If this is the quality of work that can be accomplished in a week, I have high hopes for our yearlong projects."
 
 Four other games rounded out this quarter’s competition: 




 
  
 
 2nd place:  The creators of  Q-Bitz , in which the player shrinks and grows platforms in order to repair a city, said they were inspired by the retro feel of games from the 70s and 80s.
 




 
  
 
 3rd place: Vine Rider ’s objective is to have the player escape a flooding cave by growing platforms in vertical and horizontal directions that take the player to safety.  




 
  
 
 4th place: Satelles , the first game in Game Jam history to include an online high score database, was a mix of asteroids and tower defense in which the player must defend a space station from increasing amounts of debris.
 




 
  
 
 5th place: Flora  is a three-part mini game that involves level progression, where the player switches through screens to collect water, extinguish fire and build tree people.
 


  
 — Reported by Courtney Hamilton  
 — Photos by Peter Huynh
 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 