 Query Indexing and Velocity Constrained Indexing: Scalable Techniques for 
      Continuous Queries on Moving Objects (IEEE Transactions on Computers 2002) 
     
           
    Query Indexing and Velocity Constrained 
         Indexing: Scalable Techniques for Continuous Queries on Moving Objects. 
    Appeared in IEEE Transactions on Computers, vol. 51(10), 2002. 
     
   
      
       Sunil Prabhakar, Yuni Xia,  Dmitri V. Kalashnikov , Walid G. Aref, and 
       Susanne E. Hambrusch
      
     
      
	Department of Computer Sciences 
	Purdue University 
	PLACE project ( http://www.cs.purdue.edu/place/ )
	 
     
      Abstract 
      
       Moving object environments are characterized by large numbers of moving objects 
       and numerous concurrent continuous queries over these objects. Efficient 
       evaluation of these queries in response to the movement of the objects is 
       critical for supporting acceptable response times. In such environments, the 
       traditional approach of building an index on the objects (data) suffers from 
       the need for frequent updates and thereby results in poor performance. In fact, 
       a brute force, no-index strategy yields better performance in many cases. 
       Neither the traditional approach nor the brute force strategy achieve 
       reasonable query processing times. This paper develops novel techniques for the 
       efficient and scalable evaluation of multiple continuous queries on moving 
       objects. Our solution leverages two complimentary techniques: Query Indexing 
       and Velocity Constrained Indexing (VCI). Query Indexing relies on 1) 
       incremental evaluation, 2) reversing the role of queries and data, and 3) 
       exploiting the relative locations of objects and queries. VCI takes advantage 
       of the maximum possible speed of objects in order to delay the expensive 
       operation of updating an index to reflect the movement of objects. In contrast 
       to an earlier technique [29] that requires exact knowledge about the movement 
       of the objects, VCI does not rely on such information. While Query Indexing 
       outperforms VCI, it does not efficiently handle the arrival of new queries. 
       Velocity constrained indexing, on the other hand, is unaffected by changes in 
       queries. We demonstrate that a combination of Query Indexing and Velocity 
       Constrained Indexing enables the scalable execution of insertion and deletion 
       of queries in addition to processing ongoing queries. We also develop several 
       optimizations and present a detailed experimental evaluation of our techniques. 
       The experimental results show that the proposed schemes outperform the 
       traditional approaches by almost two orders of magnitude.
      
       
         Keywords:   
       Moving objects, query indexing, Q-index, velocity constrained 
       indexing, VCI, continuous queries, long-running queries, monitoring queries, 
       continuous range queries, location-aware computing
     
         
	     Downloadable files: 
       Paper:  IEEETC02_dvk.www.pdf  
       See also  main memory 
         solution  to the same problem.    BibTeX entry: 
 @article{IEEETC02::dvk,
    author = {S. Prabhakar and Y. Xia and D. Kalashnikov and 
              W. Aref and S. Hambrusch},
    title  = {Query Indexing and Velocity Constrained Indexing: 
              Scalable Techniques for Continuous Queries on Moving Objects},
    journal = {IEEE Transactions on Computers},
    volume = 51,
    number = 10,
    pages = {1124--1140},
    month = oct, year = 2002
}

 

 Back to Kalashnikov's homepage 
          </body> 