 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  March 21,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         Alumnus Steven Anderson receives 2016 Lauds &amp; Laurels Award
</strong>
          
                    
UC Irvine honors alumnus Steven Anderson (B.S. ’86), managing partner at  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &amp; Sullivan  and a distinguished lawyer in the computer science and technology field, with a  2016 Lauds and Laurels Award . Anderson is one of this year’s 18 recipients of the UCI Alumni Association’s highest honor, and this year’s only ICS alum.

  
Anderson graduated magna cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa with a B.S. in Information and Computer Sciences in 1986. From there, he attended Harvard Law School, graduating cum laude with his J.D. in 1989. He served as editor of the  Harvard Journal of Law and Technology  from 1987 to 1989. Anderson now practices law in the areas of intellectual property litigation and patent litigation. Over the years, he has provided counsel in a variety of computer and tech-related areas, including microprocessors and microcomputers, ultrasonic toothbrushes, and prepaid wireless telecommunication systems and methods, among many others. His clients have included DIRECTV, Freedom Wireless, Seiko Epson and Motorola Mobility.   Los Angeles Magazine   has also named Anderson a “Super Lawyer” several times over.

  
Anderson and his fellow awardees will be formally honored at the  46th Annual Lauds &amp; Laurels Gala , held May 12 at the new  [AV] Irvine  venue near the Irvine Spectrum. The Lauds and Laurels Award Ceremony has been a UCI Alumni Association tradition since 1970, making it the university’s oldest award ceremony. The annual tradition has recognized more than 750 members of the UC Irvine community for their service to the university, the community or their profession.





   Alumnus Steven Anderson receives 2016 Lauds &amp; Laurels Award
    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Dourish interviewed about the social life of algorithms for podcast

              
                Next &gt; 
                 Utts spearheads efforts to improve statistical accuracy

             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 