 ICS 139W Syllabus—Spring 2013<body>
 
   S PRING  2013 —
  Information and Computer Science  —   UC Irvine    
 
 ICS 139W Course Reference    C RITICAL  W RITING   ON  I NFORMATION  T ECHNOLOGY ,  OR    C OMMUNICATIONS  S KILLS
FOR  C OMPUTER  S CIENTISTS       
 
    Instructor:     David G. Kay  ,
5056 Donald Bren Hall (   kay@uci.edu  ) 
 
  Teaching assistant:   Steve Slota  (   sslota@uci.edu   ).
Steve will devote some of the scheduled discussion section time to individual
consultations; he will also be available at other  times to be
arranged, and by appointment.  
   Quick links:   Email archive   Piazza Public Q&amp;A   References   
 
  Course goals:   Even if you intend to
spend your entire professional life designing software or configuring networks,
you will spend more of it writing prose—memos, proposals, documentation,
electronic mail—than you will writing code.  Yet in most of your courses,
you exercise this vital skill only after you have run the last test case,
in the half-hour before the deadline.  Here we have the luxury of concentrating
on your writing skills, with an emphasis on writing to meet the specific
needs of different audiences; you will also make oral presentations and
design presentation graphics.    
 
 This course satisfies UCI's upper division
writing requirement, which gives students the opportunity to do writing
in ways that are specific to their own academic disciplines, guided by faculty
from that discipline rather than from English.  
 
  Prerequisite concepts:   Satisfaction
of the lower division writing requirement is a prerequisite for this course,
so we will expect every student to be able to write cogent, grammatical
English at the level expected in Writing 39C.  
 
  Meeting place and times:   Class meets
Tuesdays and Thursdays from 12:30 to 1:50 in ICS 180.  The discussion
sections are scheduled Wednesdays at 9:00 and at 10:00 in ICS 243; some section
days will involve required activities, but others will be set aside for
individual consultations on your work.   
 
  Office hours:   I will be in or near
my office during these scheduled hours, during which course-related matters
will have first priority:  Tuesdays from 11:30 to noon and Thursdays after class. 
Of course emergencies may come up, but I will try to give advance notice
of any change.  If I'm not immersed in something else, I'll be glad
to answer short questions whenever I'm in my office, so feel free to
drop by any time.  I'll also be happy to make appointments for other
times during the week.  The quickest and most effective way to reach me
is by electronic mail, as described below.  
 
  Questions and announcements:   You can
usually get a response to your course-related questions most quickly by posting them at Piazza.com; these postings are public to the whole class. For individual questions, send electronic mail
to the ID    ics139w@uci.edu   .
This goes to both of us, and whoever reads it first can respond.  If you
need to reach one of us individually, our individual addresses are listed
above.  
 
 We may also send course announcements by Email
to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email at least daily.
Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
has for you (your UCInet ID).  If you prefer to read your Email on another
account, you should set your UCInet account to forward your Email to your
preferred account (from    http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html   ).  Don't let this slide; if you miss official
announcements, your grade could suffer.     
 
 This course has a home page at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/139w   ; EEE provides an archive of official course
Email.   
 
  Course materials:   Every student in the course should have: 
    An English dictionary.  Ideally you should
   have a paperback dictionary as well as a large, unabridged dictionary in
   the place where you'll do most of your writing.  The former has faster
   access time but the latter has greater capacity, so both are valuable. 
   A paperback thesaurus is also useful, though you should remember that a
   thesaurus doesn't give the connotations or appropriate contexts for
   the synonyms it lists.  If it's easy to get access to dictionary and thesaurus functionality on your computer, that's also fine. 
    A writing guide, such as UCI's  Anteater
 	Guide to Writing  or some more comprehensive work that can answer your
   mechanical questions.  The  UCI Writing Center  has a large set of resources, mostly on line    . 
  These additional materials are not required in the sense that we don't have any exams on their content nor do we use them directly for our assignments. Nonetheless, they are valuable for various reasons and we recommend that you acquire one or two that match your needs and interest. We haven't made them available in the UCI Bookstore; you can get the ones you want just as easily on line. 
    Writing for Computer Science,  second edition, by Justin Zobel.  This  guide gives mechanical advice but also addresses writing research papers and giving oral presentations.
   
    The MIT Guide to
   Science and Engineering Communication,  second edition, by James Paradis
   and Muriel Zimmerman.  This brief guide describes the various forms of scientific
   and technical writing, including sections on oral presentations and document
   design.
   
    Visual &amp; Statistical Thinking: Displays of Evidence for Decision
   Making,  by Edward R. Tufte.  This reprint of Chapter 2 of Tufte's
   book,  Visual Explanations,  describes two situations where the way
   information was presented had life-or-death consequences.  
    The Cognitive Style of PowerPoint,  second edition, by Edward R. Tufte. Tufte presents evidence that "PowerPoint, comparied to other common presentation tools, reduces the analytical quality of serious presentations of evidence."  
  
  Course requirements and grading:   To
satisfy the upper division writing requirement, you must receive a grade
of C or better in this course; you may also take this class on a pass/not-pass
basis (which also requires work at the C level to pass).  In addition to
satisfactory participation and completion of the assignments, to pass 139W
you must successfully complete an in-class writing sample (described in
more detail in the following section) demonstrating your ability to write
a short passage in clear, correct, grammatical, cogent academic English.  
  
    Four main writing assignments, each with
     multiple parts:  "Writing Instructions" (about 10% of the course
     grade), "Influencing Policy" (about 20%), "Changing the System
     Introductory Tutorial" (about 15%), "Changing the System Proposal"
   (about 25%).  
  
    Two or three smaller exercises, each worth
   about 5%.  
  
    Class attendance and participation, including
     three or four oral presentations, worth about 20% overall.  The importance
     of participation in this course is clear from its weight.  Much of the learning
     comes from activities we conduct in class; there is no other way to make
     them up, and your grade will suffer if you miss them.  The course outline
     indicates certain activities with a bullet (•); it is particularly important
   that you attend class or lab on those dates.  
  
 In general we will assign scores on a 100-point
scale, with 95 a clear A, 85 a clear B, and below 70 not of passing quality
(i.e., below C).  It is possible but not guaranteed that the cutoffs for
course letter grades of A and B will be assigned more leniently; that is,
an overall score of 89% might receive an A or A-.  
 
 There will be no exams.  
  We're required to say that in unusual circumstances, these criteria could change, but we do not expect that to happen.  
   Special needs:  Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation due to a disability should contact the UCI Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to explore the possible range of accommodations. We encourage all students having difficulty, whether or not due to a disability, to consult privately with the instructor at any time.   
 
  In-class writing sample:   Being able to produce clear and correct writing
is a requirement for completing lower division writing, so we expect everyone
in the class to be able to demonstrate this ability.  
  The first
  in-class writing sample is scheduled for Thursday, April 4; if you don't
  pass the first sample, you will have another chance in section on Wednesday, April 10.
  The topic for each sample will be something designed to be easy to write
  about, so you can concentrate on your writing rather than the underlying
  ideas.  In the hour-plus class period, we will ask you to write roughly
  300 words (for comparison, this paragraph contains about 150 words); this should
  give you plenty of time to revise and rewrite your passage.  To pass, your
  writing must have essentially perfect mechanics, grammar, and usage, and
  it must be reasonably clear and well organized.  You may bring a dictionary
  or any other reference works on paper.   These samples are short enough, and you have enough time, that we do expect everyone to write these samples by hand (unless you have an officially recognized disability, of course). 
 
  Computer access:   For the rest of your work, students in ICS 139W
have access to the ICS open labs.  These machines run Windows and the Microsoft
Office suite of  software, including Word and PowerPoint.  For this course
you may use any system to which you legitimately have access; we will require
that you learn and use PowerPoint (or Apple's Keynote or an open-source equivalent) for part of one assignment.  
 
  Assignment requirements:   The separate
sheet titled " Writing Assignment Requirements "
contains important advice that can affect your grade.  Read it now and check
it again every time you start a new assignment.  There are also mechanical
details for submitting assignments; each major assignment is submitted in
two ways:  on paper (including all the previously submitted, marked versions)
and electronically via   checkmate.ics.uci.edu  ).
In a class this size, it's important that every
assignment be precisely where it's supposed to be at the time it's
supposed to be there.  
 
  What you must do right now to get started
in ICS 139W:
  

— If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
UCInet account, redirect your mail at    http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html  .  — Give a snapshot of yourself (with
your name written on the back) to your TA.  This will help us learn your
names quickly.  (This is not just for fun—it's a course requirement.)
Also log on to 
eee.uci.edu, choose Surveys, and complete the ICS 139W Questionnaire (by the end of the first week for full credit). 
— On the Web, go to   checkmate.ics.uci.edu  ,
log in with your UCInet ID, choose "Course Listing" for "Spring
2013," click "Go" next to ICS 139W, and then click "List
me for this course."  You'll submit some of your work electronically;
this step is necessary to set that up.
   — Sign yourself up for ICS 139W at  Piazza.com  and read a little bit there about how the site works.  
 
  Good advice and helpful hints:   
 
 Check your electronic mail regularly; this
is an official channel for course announcements.  
 
 Attendance in class is important (and essential
on the days marked with a bullet (•) in the outline below).  Class participation
of various kinds is rewarded at 20% of the course grade.  
 
 Always keep your own copy of each assignment,
both electronically and on paper; if an assignment should get lost in the
shuffle (or if some server should crash, which has happened
in the past), we'll expect you to be able to supply a replacement easily.  
 
 If you find yourself having trouble or getting
behind, speak with a TA or the instructor.  But  never  take the shortcut
of copying someone else's work and turning it in; the consequences can
be far worse than just a low score on one assignment.  The ICS department
takes academic honesty very seriously; for a more complete discussion, see
the ICS academic honesty policy:  
 http://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/policies/index.php#academic_honesty   
 
 The best advice we can give you is to read
all the materials with care and pay close attention to what they specify.
Even if a natural language like English is not quite as precise as a formal
language like Java, precise expression in English is precisely what this
course is about and we have tried to reflect that in our course materials.
The time it takes to read each assignment twice will be time well spent.  
 
  Approximate course outline:   
        
   Week     
 
  Date    
 
  Topic    
 
  Item(s) Due  [see notes below]  
   
  1.    
  2 April  
 
 Introduction to the course
    
 
    
   
    
 
 3 April (section)   
 
 Consultation on " Changing System "
topics and " Writing Instructions "   
   
   
    
 
 4 April   
 
  • In-class writing sample I
        
  
  " Changing System "
Email to Steve Slota 
(   sslota@uci.edu   )  
   
  2.    
 
 9 April    
 
  Oral presentation techniques     
 
       
     
   10 April (section)  
   • Using other people's writing   
• In-class writing sample II (if necessary)  
   " Writing Instructions "
(draft, 3 copies)*   
   
    
 
 11 April   
 
 • Oral synopsis of system changes 
  
 
 "Changing System" synopsis (oral)
  
   
  3.    
 
 16 April   
  •  Group editing of letter influencing policy   
  " Influencing Policy "
  (draft)*   "Writing Instructions" (final)  
   
    
 
 17 April (section)   
  •  Group editing of introductory tutorials    
  "Changing System" intro (draft)*  
   
    
 
 18 April   
  • Oral tutorial introduction to system (videotaped)   
 
 "Changing System" intro (oral)   
    4.  
   23 April  
   • Oral tutorial intro to system continued (video)  
   "Influencing Policy" (revised)  
   
    
  24 April (section)  
  Consultation hour    
 
 "Changing System" intro (final)  
   
    
 
 25 April   
 
 •  Group editing of change proposals    
 
 "Changing System" proposal (draft
with slides)*  
   
  5.    
 
 30 April   
 
 Effective typography and presentation graphics
[ guidelines ;  specimen ]; Information visualization 
    
  
   
    
 
 1 May  (section)   
 
 • Review of videotapes      
 
      
     
   2 May  
   Résumés and cover letters  
   "Changing System" proposal (revised
with slides)  
   
  6.    
 
 7 May   
  Professional ethics   
 
 "Influencing Policy" (final)  
   
    
 
 8 May (section)   
  Consultation hour    
 
   Graphics Activity (optional)    
   
    
 
 9 May   
  Nature and structure of language   
   
   
  7.    
 
 14 May   
  Nature and structure of language (continued)    
 
      
     
   15 May (section)  
   • Testing of PowerPoint files  
    
   
    
 
 16 May   
  •  Oral proposal of change  to decision-makers   
  "Changing System" proposal (oral)  
   
  8.    
 
 21 May   
  Consultation hour   
  "Changing System" proposal (final)  
   
    
 
 22 May (section)   
  • Oral proposals (continued once)   
   
   
    
  23 May   
 
       • Oral proposals (continued twice)   
   
    9.     
   28 May  
   • Oral proposals (continued thrice)  
    
     
   29 May (section)  
   Consultation hour  
    
       
   30 May  
   •    Group editing of promotion pieces   or  résumés and cover letters      
   "Changing System" promo or résumé/cover
letter (draft)*  
    10.  
   4 June  
   • Oral promotion of change to users   
   "Changing System"   promo or résumé/cover
(final)      
"Changing System" promo (oral)  
     
    5 June (section)  
    Consultation hour   
     
     
    6 June  
    Epilogue  
     
    All assignments listed above must be submitted
in two ways (on paper at the start of class and via Checkmate), as described
on the previous page, with these exceptions: 
  
    Of course the Email message listed above
   should not be submitted any other way.  
  
    The assignments marked "oral"
   do not entail any other submission (though most of them have related parts
   that  do  have to be submitted in multiple ways; those parts are all
   listed separately).  
  
    The assignments marked with an asterisk
     (*) should be submitted in class on paper only; they do not have to be submitted
   electronically.  
    David G. Kay ,  kay@uci.edu      
Tuesday, May 7, 2013 12:05 PM
  
</body> 