 Computer Law Seminar Syllabus<body>
 
 U NIVERSITY OF  C ALIFORNIA ,
I RVINE  — I NFORMATION  &amp; C OMPUTER
 S CIENCE
  I NFORMATICS  269 — W INTER  Q UARTER
 2014  
 
 Computer Law  
— Course Reference  
 
  Instructor:     David G. Kay ,
5056 Donald Bren Hall. Office hours: Feel free to drop by any time or send electronic mail to    kay   .  
   Meeting place and times:   Tuesdays and Thursdays from 9:30 to 10:50 in ICS 259.  
   Course requirements:  For everyone, reading and attending class to discuss the
  course materials and a take-home final exam
  (out at the end of the ninth week, due at the start of finals week). For those who want a letter grade (rather than SU), a term project on a computer law topic of your choice,
  presented orally (talk plus discussion); we will take signups for these in Week 2.   
    Readings:   I'll assign readings as we go.  Most will be on-line; I'll arrange access to the others.  The course home page is    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/269/   .
     
   Approximate course outline ( slides ):  
        Week 1   
      January 7/9  
      Overview of computer law and the course 
      Background on the legal system, legal principles and reasoning  
        Sources of law  
    Courts and jurisdiction      
      Week 2   
      January 14/16  
      Protecting intellectual property rights in computer software:  
    Copyright, patent, trade secret  
      Week 3   
      January 21/23  
      More on intellectual property  
      Week 4   
      January 28/30  
      Current intellectual property issues 
      Contracting for computer systems and services  
      Week 5   
      February 4/6  
      Free speech and other constitutional issues in cyberspace  
Privacy protection  
Fair information practices and fair credit reporting legislation  
      Week 6   
      February 11/13  
      Liability for system malfunction   
      Week 7   
      February 18/20  
      Professional ethics 
    Computer-related litigation and computer-based evidence 
    Computer crime and computer abuse 
    Project presentations. Thursday: Anshu Singh (E-Waste and Recycling) and Moury Bidgoli (Cybercrimes: ID Theft and Cyberbullying  
      Week 8   
      February 25/27  
      Project presentations. Tuesday: Saltanat Mashirova (Writing and Spreading Viruses) and Xinning Gui (Antitrust Law in China). Thursday: Alex Yuktanon (Extraterritorial Rights on the Internet) and Siva Thirunavukkarasu (Megaupload.com Copyright Case)  
      Week 9   
      March 4/6  
      Project presentations. Tuesday: Rohan Gopalakrishnan (International Copyright) and Rohan Achar (Automated Administration of Justice). Thursday: No class.  
      Week 10   
      March 11/13  
      Project presentations. Tuesday: Sonali Madireddi (Legal Aid for the Disadvantaged) and Vaibhav Saini (Source Code Clones in Open Source Software).   
    Thursday: Epilogue  
       
  David G. Kay ,       kay@uci.edu 
 
 </body> 