 Informatics 131 Course Reference • Summer 2012<body>
Summer 2012 —  Information and Computer Sciences  —  UC Irvine 
 
Informatics 131  Course Reference  HUMAN-COMPUTER
INTERACTION</strong> 
 
 Instructor:    David G. Kay ,
5056 Donald Bren Hall (  kay@uci.edu  ). TA:  Colin Wheelock  (  colin.wheelock@gmail.com  ) 
  Quick links:  
 Slides 
 Slides (4-up) 
 Textbook 
  Assignments 
  Piazza Q&amp;A (public)  
  Email archive 
 References  
  Course goals:  The first 40 years of
  computer science were concerned mainly with computers themselves—making
  them faster, smaller, more reliable, and better understood mathematically.
  Perhaps that's still the main concern of the field as a whole, but
  today computer scientists devote increasing attention to computers in their
  real-world context, which usually involves the people who use them. 
 
Computers may be complex systems, but human
beings are even more complex, and when we try to understand how computers
and people work together—well, there's a lot to cover.  This course
will introduce the broad field of human-computer interaction (HCI):  the
psychological underpinnings of cognition and perception; the variety of
interaction devices, media, and styles; methods for designing systems
and evaluating their usability; and the principles and guidelines the field has developed.  The success of most systems today, especially
consumer products, depends largely on HCI decisions. 
 
This course is also the prerequisite for Informatics 132, the project course in HCI requirements and evaluation. Also of note are Informatics 133, the course in HCI programming, Informatics 134, the HCI programming project course,  Informatics 143, on information visualization, and Informatics 153, on computer-supported cooperative work. 
 
 Prerequisite courses and concepts: 
 The prerequisite for Informatics 131 is one course in computing and upper division
standing. The course will not require any significant programming—that's
for Informatics 133—but we do expect each student to be able to write clear, cogent,
grammatical English at an upper division level because much of the work
in this course will involve describing and justifying the design decisions
and evaluation judgements you make.  We also expect you to have these basic
computing skills:  Searching and browsing the Web, reading and sending Email,
downloading files, viewing and printing PDF (Adobe Acrobat) documents, and
creating or saving documents for Email and other purposes in plain ASCII
text form (not HTML or Word attachments).  
 
 Meeting place and times:   Lecture meets
Tuesdays and Thursdays from 1:00 to 3:50 p.m. in Donald Bren Hall 1431.  
 The projection screen and audio of each class will be recorded and available through UCI Replay; after each class, you will receive electronic mail with the link for access. We must note, however, that this process is not 100% reliable; some classes may end up not being recorded. Moreover, in some classes we will be designing and critiquing our designs; being present to participate is an important part of the learning. 
 
 Office hours:   
I will plan to be available to discuss course-related matters right after class on Tuesdays and Thursdays.     I'll also be
happy to make appointments for other times during the week.  The quickest
and most effective way to reach me is by electronic mail. 
 
 Questions and announcements:   You can
usually get a response to your course-related questions within a few hours
(perhaps a bit longer on the weekends) by sending electronic mail to the
address   i131@uci.edu  . We will never intentionally ignore a message, so if you don't receive a response, write again; sometimes overactive spam fiters snag a legitimate message. Using course-specific subject lines and your UCInet Email address will help your messages get noticed. 
Email you send to   i131@uci.edu   is private between you, the TA, and me. We have also set up a more public discussion forum at  www.piazza.com . Piazza has some advantages over the typical noteboard or discussion group; we'll use it this term and analyze its usability, too.
 
We may also send course announcements by Email
to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email regularly.
 Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
has for you (your UCInet ID).  If you prefer to read your Email on another
account, you should set your UCInet account to forward your Email to your
preferred account (you can do this on the web at   http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html  .
 Don't let this slide; if you miss official announcements, your grade
could suffer. 

This course has a home page at   http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/131/  ;   http://e3.uci.edu/12z/w3m3/37505   holds an archive of official course
Email. 
 
 Textbook and course materials:   
  Interaction Design:  Beyond Human-Computer Interaction,  third edition, by Jennifer
Preece, Yvonne Rogers, and Helen Sharp. 
 
 The Cognitive Style of PowerPoint: Pitching Out Corrupts Within,  second edition, by 
Edward R. Tufte. This short monograph takes a critical look at the use of
PowerPoint, a pervasive means of presenting information.  (This document and the following one are available on Amazon for $7 each; we'll be using them in the second half of the course.)  
 
 Visual &amp; Statistical Thinking: Displays
of Evidence for Decision Making,  by Edward R. Tufte.  This reprint of
Chapter 2 of Tufte's book,  Visual Explanations,  describes two
situations where the way information was presented had life-or-death consequences. 
 
  Annals of Medicine: The Checklist ,  by Atul Gawande ( The New Yorker , December 10, 2007). A broad, practical discussion of how people can better cope with complex systems (in this case, surgery). 
 
 Course structure:
    Assignments  
(40% of the course grade, with later assignments generally weighted more
heavily than earlier ones)
  Class participation  (15%)
  One midterm,  given in class on Thursday, August 23(15%)
  One final exam,  on Tuesday, September 11, from 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. (30%) 
 We determine final grades neither on a formal curve (with equal numbers of As and Fs, Bs and Ds, and so on) nor on a straight, fixed scale.
  
Grades below C are rare in this course; they result mostly from not completing assignments or otherwise not being engaged with the course. We recommend that you focus not on letter grades but on learning what's necessary to earn high scores; the grades will follow from that. 
 
We're required to say that in unusual
circumstances, these criteria could change, but we do not expect that to
happen. 
  Special needs:  Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation due to a disability should contact the UCI Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to explore the possible range of accommodations. We encourage all students having difficulty, whether or not due to a disability, to consult privately with the instructor at any time.  
  What you must do right now to get started
  in Informatics 131:
    — If you do not have a UCInet ID,
  get one.  See   http://activate.uci.edu/  .
   
  — If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
  UCInet account, redirect your mail at   http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html  . 
  — Complete the  Informatics 131 Questionnaire  at http://eee.uci.edu/survey/infx131summer12 (by 5:00 on Friday, August 10). 
  — Go to  checkmate.ics.uci.edu , log in with your UCInet ID, choose "Course Listing" and "Summer 2 2012,"click "Go" next to Informatics 131, and then click "List me for this course." You'll submit most of your work electronically; this step is necessary to set that up.
   
  — Sign yourself up for  Informatics 131 on Piazza.com . 
 
 Good advice and helpful hints:  
 
Check your electronic mail regularly; this
is an official channel for course announcements. When sending course-related mail, start the subject line with "Infx 131" or "HCI class". 
 
Attendance in class is essential; concepts
and issues that come up in class will find their way onto the exams and
class participation in various forms counts towards the  course grade. 
 
Always keep your own copy of each assignment,
both electronically and on paper; if an assignment should get lost in the
shuffle (or if a file server should crash, which has happened
in the past), we'll expect you to be able to supply a replacement easily. 
 
If you find yourself having trouble or getting
behind, speak with the instructor.  But  never  take the shortcut
of copying someone else's work and turning it in; the consequences can
be far worse than just a low score on one assignment.  The ICS department
takes academic honesty very seriously; for a more complete discussion, see
the ICS academic honesty policy: 
  http://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/policies/index.php  . 
 
 Approximate course outline: 
        
 Week  
 
 Date  
 
 Topic  
 
 Readings*  
         
 1.   
 
7 August  
 
Introduction to the course and HCI 
Conceptual models and metaphors  
 
1 
2 
   
    
 9 August 
 Cognitive foundations: memory, learning, vision, movement, language  
 
3   
   
2.  
 14 August 
 How interactions affect users; collaboration and social interaction; interaction styles  
 4, 5, 6 
   
    
  16 August
  
 Design process: needs and requirements, data gathering and analysis; prototyping  
 7, 8, 9 
   
3.  
  21 August
  
 Design process (continued)  
 10, 11 
   
    
  23 August
  
 
 Midterm;</strong> design process (continued)  
 
  
   
4.  
  28 August
  
 Design process (continued); evaluation  
 12, 13, 14, 15 
   
    
 
30 August  
 Evaluation (continued); interaction devices  
   
   
5.  
 4 September  
 Guidelines for hypermedia, feedback, errors, help, menus, forms, screens, typography  
   
   
    
 
6 September  
 Users with disabilities; information visualization; PowerPoint issues; epilogue  
 Other readings 
   
6.  
   
  Final Exam</strong>, Tuesday 11 September, 1:00 to 3:00 p.m.  
 
  
   
* Chapters shown are in the Preece/Rogers/Sharp text.
 Read the Tufte monographs and the Gawande article whenever you like, but before the last class meeting.
 
 Acknowledgements:   Alfred Kobsa and
Nayla Nassif generously contributed materials to this course. 
 </body> 