 Main_Page - GraphModAlg@UCI  


 
 Search: 
 

     
 


   Main_Page  
  

  
 
 Wiki 

   Main_Page    RecentChanges    FindPage    HelpContents  
  
 
 Page 
   Immutable Page    Comments    Info    Attachments   

 
     More Actions: 
     

   
 
 User 
   Login    
  
   
   
  Graphical Model Algorithms at UC Irvine 
       Check out the  REES  package and our other  Software .</strong>        Welcome to  GraphModAlg@UCI , the home page of  Prof. Dechter's  group in the Bren School of  ICS  at  UC Irvine . Our research centers on computational aspects of automated reasoning and knowledge representation including search, constraint processing and probabilistic reasoning.        
  Software 
   This web page serves as a platform to make our algorithms and their implementations available to interested researchers. Feel free to have a look at the current list of available  Software . Some of our algorithms have recently been evaluated in the  UAI'08 probabilistic inference evaluation .       We also provide a number of example problem instances in our  Repository .       
  Research overview 
   The  reasoning group's  research headed by  Prof. Dechter  is in the field of automated reasoning in Artificial Intelligence, focusing on Graphical Models. Graph-based models (e.g., Bayesian and constraint networks, influence diagrams and Markov decision processes) have become a central paradigm for knowledge representation and reasoning  in Artificial Intelligence and general computer science.       These models are used in numerous applications in industrial and engineering tasks, such as scheduling, planning, diagnosis and prediction, design, and hardware and software verification.  These reasoning problems can be stated as the formal tasks of  constraint satisfaction and satisfiability, combinatorial optimization and probabilistic inference.         Main_Page  (last edited 2013-08-15 02:23:53 by   WilliamLam  ) 

  
  
   MoinMoin Powered    Python Powered    GPL licensed    Valid HTML 4.01  
  </body> 