 ICS-H197 Fall Quarter 2011 

 

  I&amp;C  Sci  (ICS) H197 — Honors
Seminar — Fall 2011      

       

  Please see also the  ICS Honors Program Website .    

       

 

  

   Current Announcements:      

         

   o   
    Homework
assignments have been posted for the first five weeks of the syllabus --- see
below. Thereafter, no homework! Work on your other classes.    

   o   
    Your
first homework  assignment --- find  and read a research
paper by an ICS faculty member (see Week 1, below).    

   o   
    Bring
your paper to class on Wed., 5 Oct.; and bring it to ILC-164 on Wed., 19 Oct.    

   o   
    Current
announcements will appear here, at top-level, for quick and easy inspection.  

     

 

  

  Place:
 ICS-243  (building
302 on the  UCI
campus map  )  
Time: Wednesday 10:00-10:50am       

  Two
people primarily oversee the ICS Honors Program. The  Honors Program Advisor,  currently Rick Lathrop, is the faculty
member in charge of the program. The  Honors
Program counselor,  currently Diana  Tien , will
help orient students and track their progress. Feel free to ask us any
questions about the Honors Program.    

  Instructor/ICS Honors Program
Advisor: Richard Lathrop  
Office hours: Tuesdays 2:00-3:30pm, or anytime by appointment, in DBH-4224    

  Email:     rickl@uci.edu     

  (If you send email, please put
“ICS-H197” somewhere in the Subject line.)    

       

  ICS Honors Program Counselor: Diana  Tien   
Office hours: By appointment, in ICS-   352       

  Email:  dtien@ics.uci.edu     

  (If you send email, please put
“ICS-H197” somewhere in the Subject line.)    

  

   

  Goal:      

  ICS H197 provides an opportunity for undergraduate honors students
in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences to learn about
the research taking place in the School and to begin to get involved with this
research. The major purpose of this course is to help you learn what sort of
research is going on, which people do what, and how to get connected with a
research project. The course will also provide a general introduction to the
scientific and technical research enterprise, including the research
literature, research IP and entrepreneurship, how to give a successful
technical talk, and the responsible conduct of research  . Various
enrichment activities include a library-based introduction to searching the
research literature, faculty panel on improving your graduate school
applications, and the opportunity to practice and improve technical talk
presentation skills in a live talk to the class.    

  One
of your major goals in this course is to gain an understanding of what research
is being pursued in the School and what areas might be of interest to you for
your project. This is  crucial,  since it should help
you complete your second goal, selection of your faculty advisor. Remember that
the arrangement must be mutually acceptable, so there is no guarantee that the
first faculty member you talk to will say yes; it may be, for example, that
they have no suitable project in mind at the time you ask.    

  It
is not imperative that you begin your research immediately next quarter if your
schedule for graduation allows you enough time. However, there are some
important advantages to starting fairly soon, and we encourage you to begin by
spring quarter. Starting early gives you more flexibility with regard to
finishing the rest of your degree requirements, especially if you want to
continue the research for more than two quarters. Also, students often find  that faculty  who have supervised their honors research
project are good sources for letters of recommendation; they will be in the
best position to comment on your ability if you are well into your research
project.    

  

   

  Please Note:      

   (1)   
    Two types of students take this course: students
in the ICS Honors Program (ICSHP), and students in the  Campuswide 
Honors Program (CHP). In many ways the requirements are the same for both types
of students: you are to select a faculty advisor, do two or more quarters of
research with that advisor, and produce a report which is considered to be of
honors quality. However, students in the  Campuswide 
Honors Program should discuss their plans with counselors in the CHP, in order
to make sure that they are meeting the requirements of that program.    

   (2)   
    Until this year, ICS-H197 met on Friday with the
former ICS-200, a weekly seminar series that formerly introduced you to
research by ICS faculty. Last year, ICS-200 was discontinued by ICS, and
replaced instead by separate seminars run by the departments of Informatics and
of Computer Science.    *Instead* of
the former ICS-200, you should now attend one or the other of your choice of
these two departmental research seminars:    

    CompSci         200S           SEM IN COMPSCI
RSCH       F
11:00-11:50    

   In4matx  
 209S           SEMINAR
INFORMATICS       
 F    3:00- 4:50p    

  You must attend at least one quarter of at least
one of these seminars to qualify for the ICS Honors Program.    You should do so this quarter; but if
you have a schedule conflict, you may attend during the first quarter in which
you do not have a schedule conflict.  
 Please let me know if you are unable to attend this quarter.    

   (3)   
    We are in the process of transitioning the ICS
H197 class into a more flexible largely-online course oriented more along the
lines of "Introduction to Undergraduate Research."    Please help develop and debug the new
format and content.    We'll work out
the details as we go along.      

 

  

  Class Setup:      

  This
course is graded Pass/Not Pass, and the principal formal requirement is that
you attend and participate. You must read (at least) one research paper by an
ICS faculty member, and attend (at least) one ICS research seminar, CS-200S or
In4matx-209S.    

  Some
of the class exercises may involve students giving feedback to fellow students,
and your active participation is necessary for everyone to get the most benefit
from this. Occasional absences are inevitable given busy schedules, and will be
excused on a case-by-case basis; make sure you sign the attendance sheet each
class period you attend.    

  ICS H198: Honors Research    

  To
complete the honors program you must do two quarters of independent, supervised
work (ICS 198) with your faculty advisor. (In some cases, your advisor might
ask you to take a graduate course to substitute for the first quarter.) Passing
the 198s does not necessarily guarantee successful completion of the honors
program, however. For the ICSHP, the thesis report on your honors work must be
certified by your faculty advisor and by the program advisor to be of honors
quality. (Again, students in the CHP should keep in touch with counselors in
that program about the requirements.)    

   o         students    majoring in
ICS or CS can count completion of two ICS H198s as one project course.    

   o         students    majoring in
CSE can count CSE 181ABC as one of the ICS H198s required for the Honors
Program.    

   o         students    majoring in
CSE can count  Engr  H199 as one of the ICS H198s
required for the Honors Program.     

  

   

  Recommended books:      

 William
 Strunk , Jr., and E. B. White,   The   
Elements of Style , MacMillan, New York.  

  Robert A. Day (ed.),  How to Write and Publish a Scientific
Paper,  Oryx Press, 1998.   

 Joseph
M. Williams,  Style: Ten Lessons in Clarity and Grace,  Harper-Collins,
1989.  

 Dale
Carnegie,   The    Quick and Easy Way to
Effective Speaking: Modern Techniques for Dynamic Communication , Pocket
Books, New York, 1977.  

 Robert
M.  Woelfle  (ed.),   A   
New Guide for Better Technical Presentations,  IEEE Press, 1992.  

 

  

      Syllabus:      

  The following represents a preliminary syllabus. Some changes in the lecture
sequence may occur due to earthquakes, fires, floods, wars, natural disasters,
unnatural disasters, or the discretion of the instructor based on class
progress.    

  Background Reading and Lecture Slides will be changed or revised as the
class progresses at the discretion of the instructor.    

      Week 1:       

                     Wed., 28 Sep., Introduction to the ICS Honors Program.     

         

                 Homework
#1, due Wed., 5 Oct.:     

    Find and read a research paper by an ICS Faculty Member.      

   o   
     Make sure the paper
already will be indexed in the literature (published at least 6 months ago in a
major venue).     

   o   
      Bring your paper to class on Wed., 5 Oct.      (Students with time conflicts: email its title and authors to Dr.
Lathrop)     

   o   
      Bring
your paper to ILC-164 on Wed., 19 Oct.      (Time conflicts: bring it
to the alternate library orientation, TBA)     

   o   
      If you already have a
research advisor and topic, this research paper must be from an entirely
different research area.         The intent is to broaden your exposure
to ICS research.     

         

   Week 2:     

                      Wed., 5 Oct., Introduction to the Scientific
and Technical Research Literature.          

   o   
      Bring your ICS faculty research paper to class on Wed., 5
Oct.          

         

                 Homework
#2, due Wed., 12 Oct.:     

     Summary, Point, &amp; Question about your paper.       [ Instructions ;  Guide ]     

   o   
     Email your 1-page Summary
to Dr. Lathrop by Wed., 12 Oct.         

         

   Background material:     

                  Literature overview.  [ PDF ;
 PPT ]     

                  Technical writing.  [ PDF ]         

         

   Week 3:     

                 Wed.,
12 Oct.,  Meet in DBH-5011 ,
ICS Faculty Panel on Improving your Grad School Applications.     

   o   
     Students with time
conflicts: Watch the video on the SAO website later. [link will appear here]     

     View the US Bureau of
Labor Statistics chart of education, income, and unemployment (click here).       

         

                 Homework
#3, due Wed., 19 Oct.:     

                  Identify
      five grad schools you might apply
to.    For each school, identify one
professor there with whom you might work.      

   o   
     Email  your
list to Dr. Lathrop by Wed., 19 Oct.        

   o   
    The reason for this requirement is so that when you write your
Statement of Purpose for each school, you will be able to mention at least one
professor  *from that school*  who
interests you.    

   o   
    Some professors will do a global string search for their name
through all of the applicant's Statements of Purpose, and then preferentially
read those applications that mention their name.    

   o   
    Thus, if you want to improve the chances that your application
actually will be read seriously, it is helpful to you to mention names of
professors at that school who interest you.    Of course, if you mention a long list of
names it will be obvious spam, so mention no more than one to three. Also,
briefly mention something personal that attracts your interest about each,
again to indicate that it isn’t just impersonal spam.    

   o   
    These remarks apply mainly to Ph.D. applications.    M.S. applications usually do not receive
as much carefully individual scrutiny as do Ph.D. applications.    

   o   
      Even if you currently do not
intend to apply to graduate school, you still must attend the Panel and do the
homework.         If you ever change your mind later in
your career, after you know more than you do now, you will want to be properly
prepared.       

         

   Week 4:     

                     Wed., 19 Oct.,  Meet
in ILC-164 at the Ayala Science Library , Introduction to Searching the
Research Literature.     

   o          Bring your  ICS
faculty research  paper to ILC-164 on Wed., 19 Oct.          

   o   
     Your challenge: Find your paper in the
literature databases using the online search tools.       

   ·        
    Pretend you didn’t know it existed beforehand, but need to
find it --- Treasure Hunt!    

   o   
     Students with time
conflicts: I will try to arrange an     alternate library
orientation, TBA.       

         

   Homework #4, Due Wed., 26 Oct.:     

    Identify three interesting ICS
research areas, and three interesting professors in each.     
[ Instructions ]     

   o   
     Email  your
1-page Summary to Dr. Lathrop by Wed., 26 Oct.        

   o   
    The point to this exercise is to show you that you have very
broad interests, and that you can find many ICS professors who might sponsor
interesting research.         

   o   
      If you already have a
research advisor and topic, all three research areas must be entirely different.         The intent is to
broaden your exposure to ICS research.     

         

   Week 5:         

                 Wed ., 26 Oct.,  Meet in ICS-243 rest of quarter ,  How to Find and Join a Research Group .      

         

   Homework #5, Due Wed., 2 Nov.:     

    Identify
one interesting ICS professor you might work with.     
[ Instructions ]       

   o   
     Email  your
1-page Summary to Dr. Lathrop by Wed., 2 Nov.       

   o   
      If you already have a
research advisor and topic, this ICS professor must be from an entirely
different area.         The intent is to broaden your exposure
to CS research.     

       

   Week 6:         

                  Wed., 2 Nov.,  How to Give a
Successful Technical Talk .      

                                               Tree Talk   .      

         

   Background material:         

                              Talk Tips .     

                               10 Talking Points   .      

                             Example
talk:  Intelligent Systems and Molecular
Biology .                    

         

                 No
more homework!    Work hard in your
other courses!     

         

   Week 7:         

                  Wed ., 9 Nov., Responsible Conduct of
Research.       

                              On Being a
Scientist Video.        Authors:  </strong>Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public
Policy, National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, and
Institute of Medicine 

                               Responsible
Conduct of Research.     
 Presentation Material Credit:  On Being a Scientist: A Guide to
Responsible Conduct in Research , Third Edition, The National Academies;
Michael  Kalichman , Director, UC San Diego Research
Ethics Program; Said  Shokair , Director, UCI UROP; ICS
Honors Program by Rick Lathrop, Director, ICS Honors Program. 

     

                 Background
Material:     

    “ Introduction to the Responsible Conduct of
Research ,”   Nicholas H.  Steneck 
with David  Zinn , Office of Research Integrity (ORI),
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  

    “ UC Conflict of Interest
Policy ,”   UC Business and Finance Bulletin G-39, UC
Executive Vice President – Business Operations.  

     

   Week 8:         

                  Wed ., 16 Nov.,  Research Intellectual Property
(IP) and Entrepreneurship  .          

             

                 Background
Material:     

                              UC
Patent  Policy, and Patent Acknowledgment  .     

         

   Week 9:         

                 Wed.,
23 Nov., Student Practice Technical Talks (2 slots available --- ask now; first
come, first served).     

         

                             10:00-10:25
--- Michael Merchant     

                                         Title:     

                                                        Skill Acquisition - A New Framework
and an Integrated Platform [ PPT ]    

                                         Abstract:     

                                                    Due
technological advancements and shifts in the market place, workforce and skill
displacement has become quite common. Retraining methodologies for workers has
not caught up and our economy's main mode of training, universities do not
focus  solely    on 
skill development, becoming to expensive for retraining. We've also seen
numerous successes in the software industry of people who trained themselves.
We'll discuss a new framework for viewing skill acquisition, which consists of
skill selection, resource identification, a recurring loop of planning, doing,
and reviewing, and finally reporting. Finally, we'll finish by discussing what
and how software can be built to assist individuals through the process and
help all those involved in the skill acquisition process better connect and
work with one another.    

       

                             10:25-10:50
--- Michael Stewart     

                                         Title:     

  Generative
Models for Probabilistic Inference [ PPT ]    

                                         Abstract:     

  Many
problems today involve very large data sets and many variables. Generative
modeling allows for the approximation of large joint probability distributions
and a look at many interesting learned parameters. I'll review the basic model
and some key areas of implementation.    

     

   Week 10:         

                 Wed ., 30 Nov.,  Student Practice Technical Talks (2
slots available --- ask now; first come, first served) .       

         

                             10:00-10:25
--- Michael  Vorobyov      

                                         Title:       

                                                    Shape
 Classication  Using Zernike Moments [ PPT ]    

                                         Abstract:     

  Zernike
moments have mathematical  properties,  make them ideal
image features to be used as shape descriptors in shape  classication 
problems. They have rotational invariant properties and could be made to be
scale and translational invariant as well. However, many factors need to be
considered to apply Zernike Moments correctly. In this paper I will show some
techniques, which could be used to optimally use Zernike Moments as a
descriptor, the results of these techniques proved to be up to 100 % accurate
in some cases of the experimentation.    

       

                             10:25-10:50
---  Khanh  Nguyen     

                                         Title:     

                                                        Dynamic Program Slicing [ PPT ]    

                                         Abstract:     

  Program
slices are useful in debugging, testing, maintenance and understanding of
programs. On the contrary of the conventional notion of static slice, I will
present the concept of dynamic slice and several approaches for computing
dynamic slicing.      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

         

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

    

     

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

</body> 