 PUBLICATIONS<body>

   
                   
              
     
          Leak-free Group Signatures with Immediate Revocation
             
        AUTHORS:
               X. Ding and G. Tsudik and S. Xu 
         REFERENCE   : 
                 The 24th
            International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS'2004)
              
                 
               Abstract   
              Group
	    signatures are an interesting and appealing cryptographic
	    construct with many promising potential applications. The
	    popularity of group signatures is evident from many recent
	    research results that investigated precise definitions and
	    realizations of group signature schemes. This paper is
	    motivated by attractive features of group signatures,
	    particularly, the potential to serve as foundation for
	    anonymous credential systems. With that in mind, we
	    re-examine the whole notion of group signatures from a
	     systems  perspective. Somewhat surprisingly, we
	    discover that there are two new and hereto un-addressed
	    requirements:  leak-freedom  and
	     immediate-revocation , that are crucial for a large
	    class of enterprise-centric applications. We then propose
	    a new group signature scheme that achieves all identified
	    properties. Our scheme is based on the so-called
	     systems architecture approach . It is appreciably
	    more efficient than the state-of-the-art, easy to
	    implement and reflects the well-known 
	     separation-of-duty principle . Another benefit of our
	    scheme is the obviated reliance on underlying anonymous
	    communication channels, which has been a requirement in
	    all previous group signature schemes.   
	        Get 
            the Full 
            text     in pdf    
               
 
      
     
          Fine-grained
            Control of Security Capabilities   
        AUTHORS:
               D. Boneh and X. Ding and G. Tsudik 
         REFERENCE   : 
                ACM Transactions on
            Internet Technology, (to appear in 2004)
              
                 
               Abstract   
                We present a
	      new approach for fine-grained control over users'  
	       security privileges (fast revocation of credentials)
	      centered around the concept of an on-line semi-trusted
	      mediator  SEM  . The use of a  SEM  in conjunction with
	      a simple threshold variant of the RSA cryptosystem
	      (mediated RSA) offers a number of practical advantages
	      over current revocation techniques. The benefits include
	      simplified validation of digital signatures, efficient
	      certificate revocation for legacy systems and fast
	      revocation of signature and decryption
	      capabilities. This paper discusses both the architecture
	      and the implementation of our approach as well as its
	      performance and compatibility with the existing
	      infrastructure. Experimental results demonstrate its
	      practical aspects.  
	        Get 
            the Full 
            text     in pdf    
               
 
      
     
          Simple 
            Identity-Based Encryption with Mediated RSA   
        AUTHORS:    X.
      Ding and G. Tsudik 
         REFERENCE   : 
                Cryptographer's Track RSA Conference, 
            2003  
                 
               Abstract   
              Identity-based public 
            key encryption facilitates easy introduction of public key cryptography 
            by allowing an entity's public key to be derived from an arbitrary 
            identification value, such as name or email address. The main practical 
            benefit of identity-based cryptography is in greatly reducing the 
            need for, and reliance on, public key certificates. Although some 
            interesting identity-based techniques have been developed in the 
            past, none are compatible with popular public key encryption algorithms 
            (such as El Gamal and RSA). This limits the utility of identity-based 
            cryptography as a transitional step to full-blown public key cryptography. 
            Furthermore, it is fundamentally difficult to reconcile fine-grained 
            revocation with identity-based cryptography.   
              
              Mediated RSA (mRSA) is 
            a simple and practical method of splitting a RSA private key between 
            the user and a Security Mediator ( SEM ). Neither the user 
            nor the  SEM  can cheat one another since each cryptographic 
            operation (signature or decryption) involves both parties. mRSA 
            allows fast and fine-grained control of users' security privileges. 
            However, mRSA still relies on conventional public key certificates 
            to store and communicate public keys. In this paper, we present 
            IB-mRSA, a simple variant of mRSA that combines identity-based and 
            mediated cryptography. Under the random oracle model, IB-mRSA with 
            OAEP[BelRog94a] is shown as secure (against adaptive chosen ciphertext 
            attack) as standard RSA with OAEP. Furthermore, IB-mRSA is simple, 
            practical, and compatible with current public key infrastructures.  
               © 
            Springer-Verlag   
                Get 
            the Full 
            text     in pdf    
               
 
      
                     Experimenting with Server-Aided Signatures   
        AUTHORS:    X. Ding, G.
      Tsudik and D. Mazzocchi 
         REFERENCE   : 
                Network and Distributed System Security Symposium,2002  
               
               Abstract   
              This paper explores practical 
            and conceptual implications of using Server-Aided Signatures (SAS). 
            SAS is a signature method that relies on partially-trusted servers 
            for generating public key signatures for regular users. Although 
             the primary goal is to aid small, resource-limited devices 
            in computing heavy-weight (normally expensive) digital signatures, 
            SAS also offers fast certificate revocation, signature causality 
            and reliable timestamping. It also has some interesting features 
            such as built-in attack detection for users and DoS resistance for 
            servers.   
               
                Get 
            the Full 
            text in pdf    
                 
 
      
            
                    
                      A Method for Fast Revocation of Public Key Certificates and Security Capabilities   
        AUTHORS:    D. Boneh, X. Ding, G.
      Tsudik and M. Wong 
         REFERENCE   :     10th Usenix Security Symposium, Washington D.C. 2001  
               
               Abstract   
              We present a new approach 
            to fast certificate revocation centered around the concept of an 
            on-line semi-trusted mediator ( SEM ). The use  of a  SEM  
            in conjunction with a simple threshold variant of the RSA cryptosystem 
            (mediated RSA) offers a number of practical advantages over current 
            revocation techniques.  Our approach simplifies validation 
            of digital signatures and enables certificate revocation within 
            legacy systems. It also provides immediate revocation of all security 
            capabilities. This paper discusses both the architecture and implementation 
            of our approach as well as performance and compatibility with the 
            existing infrastructure.  Our results show that threshold cryptography 
            is practical for certificate revocation.  
               
                Get 
            the Full text     
            in pdf    
               
 
       
           
                 
                   Generating RSA Keys on a Handheld Using an Untrusted Server   
         AUTHORS   : 
                  N. Modadugu, D.
      Boneh, and M. Kim 
         REFERENCE:  Cryptographer's 
            Track RSA Conference, 2000  
               
               Abstract   
              We show how to efficiently 
            generate RSA keys on a low power handheld device with the help of 
            an untrusted server. Most of the key generation work is offloaded 
            onto the server. However, the server learns no information about 
            the key it helped generate. We experiment with our techniques and 
            show they result in up to a factor of 5 improvement in key generation 
            time. The resulting RSA key looks like an RSA key for paranoids. 
            It can be used for encryption and key exchange, but cannot be used 
            for signatures.    
                Get 
            the     Full 
            text     in 
            pdf    
                 

     
       
                 Server-Supported Signatures   
        AUTHORS   : 
                  N. Asokan, G. Tsudik and M. Waidners  
        REFERENCE   :     Journal of Computer Security, November 1997  
               
               Abstract   
              Non-repudiation is one 
            of the most important security services. In this paper, we present 
            a novel non-repudiation technique, called Server Supported Signatures, 
            S 3 . It is based on one-way hash functions and traditional 
            digital signatures. One of its highlights is that for ordinary users 
            the use of asymmetric cryptography is limited to signature verification. 
            S 3  is efficient in terms of computational, communication 
            and storage costs. It also offers a degree of security comparable 
            to that of existing techniques based on asymmetric cryptography. 
              
                   Get 
            the     Full 
            text     in pdf    
               

     
       
   
    
            
</body> 