 
      Ro Cammarota @ UC Irvine
    <body>
     
      Home  |
           Teaching  |
           Projects &amp; Publications  |
           Nosing around  |


           About this website 
          
       This section includes a description of the classes which I currently co-teach at UC Irvine.
        

      
          COMPSCI 244    Introduction to Embedded Systems and Ubiquitous Computing   
         This class is joint with Professor Nikil Dutt 
         
Increasing integration of communications, multimedia and processing and relentless digitization of data (including even RF data) continues to expand the scope
 and complexity of embedded systems. To appreciate these advances, and to productively contribute to future advances of these systems, a critical appreciation
 of the underlying technology underpinning is a must. The goal of this course is to develop a comprehensive understanding of the hardware and software technol
ogies underlying embedded systems, particularly, those using computing elements (processors, DSPs, or ASIPs). The students develop an appreciation of the tech
nology capabilities and limitations of the hardware, software components for building embedded systems, and methods to evaluate design tradeoffs between diffe
rent technology choices.
The course surveys the basic components of embedded and ubiquitous computing systems, including topics such as introduction to digital signal processing, cont
rol systems, software for embedded systems, ad-hoc as well as wireless and distributed networked embedded systems, embedded systems security, human interactio
n with embedded and ubiquitous systems, as well as special topics on applications of embedded and ubiquitous systems.
        
        
          COMPSCI 243   High-Performance Architectures and Their Compilers   
         This class was joint with Professor Alex Nicolau 
         
           The goal of the course is to examine the symbiotic relationship between compilers and high-performance computer architectures. Towards this goal, the course analyzes the relationship between computer architecture and program optimization. We will discuss high-performance, Multi-threaded, Multicore, Vector, Superscalar, and VLIW computer architectures. This will include discussions of not only hardware design, but also the code optimizations necessary to maximize the performance of these designs.
        
                  
           COMPSCI 131   Parallel and Distributed Computing   
         This class was joint with Professor Alex Veidenbaum 
          
This course is an introduction to parallel and distributed systems and their programming. It examines major concepts involved in creating parallel/distributed software and applications using a collection of independent, communicating single-processor systems. Performance issues in such systems are also covered.
Major topics covered in this course are: Hardware parallel and distributed systems; Programming models; OS support; Parallel/Distributed programming and performance; Coordination and Synchronization; Consistency and replication; Transactions.
           
      
       
          © Ro Cammarota, 2013  
       

        
            
       
  </body> 