 Android App Finale – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         
         
             

                            
                 Android App Finale 
                          
                                
                                         

            
               Project Meeting  
	  WICS Meeting    by admin 

            
                        on 03/12/2014 

                                
                                
                                   </strong>                                                      « prev        1     2        next »    (7 Photos)  
 As the Winter Quarter comes to an end, so does WICS’s Android App Development Projects. This quarter, WICS’s projects meetings have been mostly targeted towards completely inexperienced students who have either never built an app or have never even coded before. Over the course of 5 weeks, 30 students (8 teams) successfully submitted their completed drawing apps that they have made with the guidance of WICS. 
 WICS wants to thank the students who have attended the meetings and kept up with their project this whole time. As for all those that submitted their work, WICS provided them with lots of swag provided by Google as well as free pizza and beverages on Thursday, March 6th. 
 After a few games of Hangman with the group, WICS raffled off TWO Google Headsets! WICS hopes that everyone that attended the projects meetings got to have a taste of what it is like to develop an Android App and hopefully be able to start making one of their own in the near future! 
   Share this:        Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)        
 
	  Related  
 
                                  

                             
         
     

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 
</body> 