 Git tutorial - CS Theory Wiki 
 
  
  


 
    
    

  
  
  
   
    
    
 
 This is an old revision of the document!</strong>
 
  
 Table of Contents 
 

     Setting up git   
     Mandatory setup    
    Ignoring files    
  
    Git workflow   
     Simple workflow    
    Add-commit workflow    
    Fetch-merge workflow    
  
    I've made a huge mistake...    
    Best practices   
     Tagging versions    
  
    Tips &amp; tricks   
     What repositories do I have access to?    
    Word level diffs    
  
    Other resources      
 




  Git tutorial  
 

 
Under construction   

 

  Setting up git  
 

 

  Mandatory setup  
 

 
At the very least you will need to tell git who you are. The following two commands will set your name and email address. This information will show up in the commit log.

 
 git config  --global  user.name  "Your Name" 
git config  --global  user.email  "your_email@whatever.edu"  

 

If you have  Gravatar  account, the associated image will appear in many git  GUI  programs.
 

 

  Ignoring files  
 

 
  

 

  Git workflow  
 

 

  Simple workflow  
 

 
The first step is to clone the repository you will be working in. To clone a repository with the name  repo-name  use the following command:

 
 git clone git @ redwood.ics.uci.edu:repo-name 

 
Before a file can be tracked by the version control it will need to be added to the repository. To add the file  foo.bar  to the repository use the following command:

 
 git add foo.bar 

 
When you have edited files to the point where you are ready to “check in” your changes, you can use can use the following command to commit all changes.

 
 git commit  -a  

 
In git commits are only to your local repository. To share your local commits with your coauthors you use the push command.

 
 git push 

 
On the first push to an empty repository you will get the error:

 
 
No refs in common and none specified; doing nothing.
Perhaps you should specify a branch such as 'master'.
fatal: The remote end hung up unexpectedly
error: failed to push some refs to '&lt;repo name&gt;'
 

 

For the first push you will need to specify the full branch name with the command:

 
 git push origin master 

 

This only needs to be done once per repository.
 

 
To receive the commits of your coauthors you use the pull command.

 
 git pull 

 

Make sure you have committed all local changes before pulling.
 

 

  Add-commit workflow  
 

 

  Fetch-merge workflow  
 

 

  I've made a huge mistake...  
 

 

  Best practices  
 

 

  Tagging versions  
 
 git tag WADS2013-submission 

 
To move a tag you do the same thing, but you need to force the tag to move with -f

 
 git tag WADS2013-submission  -f  

 

  Tips &amp; tricks  
 

 

  What repositories do I have access to?  
 

 
To find out which papers you have access to on our version control server you can use the following command.

 
  ssh   -T  git @ redwood.ics.uci.edu 

 

  Word level diffs  
 

 
  

 

  Other resources  
 
     Git Immersion : A general git tutorial. 
 
    Pro Git : An online book on git. 
 
    Git - SVN Crash Course : Compares git with subversion 
 
    Collaborating with LaTeX and git : Blog post. 
 
    git + LaTeX workflow : A stackoverflow post. 
 
  

    
      
   
  

  
    
     Trace:   »    Git tutorial  
    

 




 
  
   
       Login  
      

  
   
     
          Article   
        
   
  

  
   
     
          Read   
           Show pagesource   
           Old revisions   
        
     
       
         Search 
       
      
         
          
         
          
      
     
   
  

 



 
  
   
        
   
  

  
   
     Navigation 
     
       

 
 Main page 
 

 
 Orphan pages 

 

       
     
   
   
     Print/export 
     
       
         Printable version  
        
     
   
   
     Toolbox 
     
       
         What links here  
          Recent changes  
          Upload file  
          Site index  
          Permanent link  
          Cite this page  
        
     
   


 

 



 
    
      wiki/git_tutorial.1362023033.txt.gz · Last modified: Thu Feb 28 03:43:53 2013 by michael  
         
         
         
         
         
         
     
     
 

      DokuWiki Appliance  - Powered by  TurnKey Linux     </body> 