 Graduate Student Profiles @ the Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>

 This site will look much better in a browser that supports  web standards , but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device. 
   

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










      Bren school home  &gt;  Graduate  &gt;  Profiles  
    
 Graduate Student Profiles 
 
 




  

                  

                 Alexander Behm 
                Ph.D. in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 John Brock 
                1st-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Ellie Harmon 
                4th-year Ph.D. student in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Sun Young Park 
                4th-year Ph.D. student in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Arjun Satish 
                5th-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Nicole Miya Sylvester 
                2nd-year Ph.D. student in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Tianbing Xu 
                4th-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science  
                

















 


 

       2012-13 Lamb Endowed Memorial Fellow 
 


 

        Sun Young Park 
                     Sun Young Park has received the Roberta Ellen Lamb Endowed Memorial Fellowship, established in 2007 with an endowment made by Bob and Mosselle Pione to honor the memory of their daughter. Roberta Lamb joined the Bren School as associate professor of informatics in April 2006 and passed away on Nov. 29, 2006, after a short battle with cancer. The Roberta Ellen Lamb Memorial Fellowship was created to honor Lamb’s life, the body of work she executed, and the important work left unfinished by her untimely death — and to inspire others to continue the legacy she left behind. 
 


 

       Where are you from? 
                          Seoul, Korea.  What are your previous academic degrees? 
                          MDes in interaction design from Carnegie Mellon University.  Why did you choose to pursue graduate studies at UCI? 
                          UCI’s informatics program is one of the well-known programs in human-computer interaction and social computing field in the United States. Also, I really liked the fact that the school is located in sunny and warm Southern California after a few years of living in chilly and rainy East Coast.  What is your current research focus? Why did you choose to go into this field of study? 
                          My research is broadly situated at the intersection of human-computer interaction (HCI), computer-supported cooperative work, mobile computing and health informatics. In particular, my current research focuses on the workplace technology use, collaboration and communication behaviors in a large hospital setting. As a designer trained by industrial and interaction design, I have always been interested in creating a new form of interaction that can portray people’s diverse lifestyles behaviorally, emotionally and socially. Then, I’ve further developed my interest in the social changes that result from embedding technology into everyday products, which led to my doctoral study in health/medical Informatics.  What are your future plans? 
                          I hope to ultimately use my knowledge in industry as a researcher to improve people’s lives through technology interaction. Additionally, I have always been interested in teaching and as my career progresses, I would like to share my knowledge with others as a professor while continuing my research in a university environment.   How do you like to spend your time outside of school? 
                          I do yoga and go hiking occasionally. I really hope to go scuba diving this summer since I haven’t gone for years.  Any words of wisdom for prospective grad students looking to study at UCI? 
                          Through my graduate studies and work experience as a researcher, I have realized research to be intellectually stimulating and rewarding. In the Department of Informatics at UC Irvine, I have found a supportive atmosphere that allows me to take advantage of my multidisciplinary training in order to create the best design outcomes for users. If you have a passion for research in any field, I’m sure UCI will be one of the best places that can train and support you to become a successful researcher. 
 


 



  




 
 
 
   Quick Links   
                        
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 

</body> 