 
	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
     
		News     
	         
		  Congrats Dr. Nick!  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on September 18, 2013 at 5:49 pm 				 
					
		 Congratulations to Nick Mangano, who successfully defended his Ph.D. dissertation entitled ‘Calico: an early-phase software design tool’ on September 18, with a committee of Gary Olson, David Redmiles, and Marian Petre (in addition to his advisor, of course). After 6 years of very hard work, Nick is now off to make a commercial version of […] 
     
    
         
		  CrowdCode at CrowdConf  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on September 11, 2013 at 9:23 pm 				 
					
		 Our abstract, CrowdCode: A platform for crowd development, was selected for both a poster and a talk at CrowdConf! Hope to see you in San Francisco. 
     
    
         
		  ISR Research Forum  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on May 30, 2013 at 9:21 pm 				 
					
		 SDCL is excited to welcome visitors to our lab for the ISR Research Forum. We have demos lined up of several of our research projects and are looking forward to exchanging ideas with both fellow researchers and developers from industry. If you’re in Irvine, we hope to see you there! 
     
    
         
		  Lionel Briand visit  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on May 17, 2013 at 10:12 am 				 
					
		 Lionel Briand visited the SDCL as part of his visit as an ISR Distinguished Speaker. Once more, we had great interactions and discussions about our research. 
     
    
         
		  Jane Cleland-Huang visit  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on April 19, 2013 at 6:31 am 				 
					
		 Another ISR Distinguished Speaker, another visitor to the SDCL. Jane Cleland-Huang from DePaul University visited our lab. She provided some great feedback on our research! 
     
    
         
		  Arie van Deursen visit  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on March 14, 2013 at 11:31 am 				 
					
		 We had a great time hosting Arie van Deursen from TU Delft in the Netherlands. We had a long demo session during which we provided us with some great feedback, and he gave a great talk as part of the ISR Distinguished Speaker series. 
     
    
         
		  SDCL ICSE Papers  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on February 28, 2013 at 9:45 pm 				 
					
		 SDCL will be presenting the following papers at ICSE 2013: Research track PorchLight: A Tag-Based Approach to Bug Triaging Gerald Bortis and Andre van der Hoek Education track Enabling a Classroom Design Studio with a Collaborative Sketch Design Tool Dastyni Loksa, Nicolas Mangano, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek MISE Workshop Light-weight Analysis of […] 
     
    
         
		  Michele thanks  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on December 25, 2012 at 10:43 am 				 
					
		 Michele Bonazza is now back in Italy to complete his Ph.D. program there. Time has gone very fast and we have had a great time. Look toward CaliSmall, a standalone adaptation of Calico for Android tablets, to hopefully appear in the Google Play store soon… 
     
    
         
		  Marian Petre visit  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on December 12, 2012 at 10:35 am 				 
					
		 Our long-term collaborator Marian Petre from The Open University visited us for this week, working on finalizing a book to be published out of the SPSD 2010 workshop (it is almost done!), and providing us with feedback on Nick Mangano’s work on analyzing sketches on whiteboards. Her insights are always much appreciated and we already […] 
     
    
         
		  PorchLight ICSE paper!  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on December 4, 2012 at 10:37 am 				 
					
		 Congrats to Gerald Bortis for the ICSE acceptance of his paper on PorchLight! 
     
    
    
		         
              « Previous Page  
              Next Page »  
              
         
                    
     
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 