 Distributed Web Content Authoring Tools<body>

 Distributed Web Content Authoring Tools 

 This page captures information on several early distributed Web
content authoring tools. These tools had some influence on the first
several years of deliberations of the WebDAV working group. The list
also demonstrated knowledge of existing authoring tools by leaders
and members of the working group. 

 This list is no longer actively maintained, and many links are
unlikely to work. You may wish to try the  Web Wayback Machine  for broken
links. 

 
  
Microsoft 
 
FrontPage   
FrontPage Product Information   
Microsoft FrontPage, formerly Vermeer FrontPage, is an HTML editor
which can save work to an HTTP server which has been augmented with
the FrontPage server extensions.
 

 
  America Online PrimeHost 
 AOLpress 
and  AOLserver  
Documentation for
 
AOLpress  and
 
AOLserver   

The America Online PrimeHost hosting service, formerly known as the
GNN Hosting Service, which in turn was formerly known as NaviSoft,
provides a service for using their AOLpress software to publish web
pages on their server for a monthly fee.  Since you can currently
 download
fully-functional , but non-supported versions of their AOLpress and
AOLserver tools, it is also possible to experiment with these
tools. 

 AOLpress employs the PUT method to write content to the AOLserver,
which implements access control features which control, among other
methods, who can PUT to particular namespaces within the server.  The
 
documentation  for the AOLserver describes how it distinguishes
BROWSE, PUT, MKDIR and DELETE as different administrative rights on
operations.
 

 
  Netscape 
 
Communicator   
Communicator Data Sheet   
Netscape Communicator provides authoring of HTML documents, along with
publishing capability.  Communicator can use the FTP and HTTP
protocols to remotely write content into the namespace of the HTTP
server. 

 
  VerticalSky 
 Content
Manager   VerticalSky
Data Sheet 
  
VerticalSky Content Manager (formerly MKS Web Integrity) provides
remote authoring and versioning capability.  Versioning features
include check-in/check-out, change history, and visual
differencing. 

 
  NetObjects 
 Authoring
Server Suite 
  White
Paper (PDF)   
A multiuser client/server authoring system which supports
checkin/checkout version control and a content contribution applet
which allows remote uploading of web site content by end-users.
 

 
  W3C 
 Amaya Browser/Editor   
Amaya is a graphical web browser that also provides web authoring
capabilities.  Its main features are WYSIWYG editing of web pages,
cascading style sheets, a full implementation of HTML 3.2, and publishing
on remote HTTP servers using the PUT method. 

 
  W3C 
 Line Mode Browser   
Command Reference Manual   
This character-based web browser was developed for use on terminals,
but can be run in interactive mode, non-interactive mode, and as a proxy
client.  Among its many features, the Line Mode Browser has a PUT
command which writes a document to a remote HTTP server from either
the local filesystem or a remote HTTP server. 

 
  The BSCW System   
Papers and Information on BSCW   
This system provides a shared workspace for interacting with
web content.  The system supports Netscape 2/3 Gold style POST
writing of content to a BSCW web server, checkout/checkin of
content, and support for notification of other user's actions
within the workspace.
 

 Last modified: July 3, 2003 

</body> 