 Process enactment and workflow<body>
         
 Process Enactment and Workflow 
   
  Walt Scacchi 
  ICS 221 
  17 October 2002   Workflow (Legacy)          
         What is computer-supported "workflow"?   
                   
      (early 1980's) Office automation?     
                (late 1980's)     Run-time execution    
  of procedural process programs?   
           (1990's) Email+Groupware?    
         (1990's) Logical workflow using DBMS?   
            (2000+) Web surfing ECommerce sites, like Amazon.com?    
                   
      Workflow Management Coalition   
                   
      WfMC Reference Architecture (  graphic  )   
                   
      Workflow as "implementation" vs. "specification" of
a  business  process   
                   
      Who gets to specify, refine, or redesign workflow/business 
  processes?   
                             
         Programmers      consume,
  use, and/or produce     (imperative) source code   
               End-users  consume, use, and/or produce (declarative)
  content   
                             
        Should workflow/process models be source code or content
  (or both)?   
           
        Separation of the internal representation from the
external  presentation form.    
           
        Web-based software process models and process enactment
  (workflow)    environment      
       Problem : how to provide "process enactment" support
  global distributed software development projects?    
                   
     Problem space (  graphic  )   
                       
       People (agents), Places (network locales),
Products   (software development hypertext or linked artifacts), P  rograms (tools/applications)  , and P  rocesses  
            A simple process model   as a directed attributed graph   (  graphic  )  
       
          Precedence relations (directed links/edges)   
            Decomposition relations    
            Process object types as nodes    
         
            Attributes for People, Products, and Programs for
 each process nodes    
              Attribute (instance) values as enactable workflow
 bindings   
         
            Process model as a semantic hypertext   
       
          Possible solution ( graphic )   
                       
       Provides "process-based integration"   
            Enables "process-directed intranets/VPNs"  
                       
       Process enactment as  navigational traversal 
 of a process hypertext   
                             
       Enactment as "Web surfing" a process modeled 
 as  a (semantic) hypertext  
                             
          Content Management System as Workflow environment   
         
                 
      Content management systems   
                             
        Web server + database management system + file server   
              PHP-Nuke, Zope, etc.   
                             
        Example (  Zope  ,
 in Quicktime)   
                   
    
         
   WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, XML?   
               
      WSFL, EBXML, etc.    
                       
        Web Services Flow Language (WSDL+Routing)   
               
          see F. Leymann, D. Roller, M.-T. Schmidt,  Web Services
 and Business Process Management ,  IBM Systems J. , 41(2), 198-211,
 2002  .  
             Examples: Flow relationships ( graphic )
 and global routing ( graphic )    
                   
            see D. Marinescu,       Internet-Based Workflow Management: Toward a Semantic
 Web        ,   John Wiley and
 Sons, Inc, 2002.   
                   
             Implementation vs. specification, once again!   
                              
         Process Markup Language (PML)  
         
                   
      Grammar (  specification  )   
            Example (  process
 fragment in PML  )   
            PML as an open source process model specification
and   enactment language?    
                   
    
         
   PML-based   
  process life cycle environment    ( demo ) 
     
         
  A Process Enactment Operating System (PEOS) Architecture
 (  graphic  )   
         
     
            Open problems:        
     Discovering  global software development processes 
  in open source software development projects   
                   
       Distributed : Logically centralized, but physically 
  distributed   
             Decentralized : logically and physicallyt distributed 
  (e.g., peer-to-peer)    
                   
       Recovering  global software development processes
  that breakdown during enactment and must be repaired, managed, or redirected   
           Redesigning  software development processes based
  on capture (event monitoring and enactment history logging), analysis (measurement), 
  replay (simulated re-enactment), and optimization (redesign transformation 
  rules)   
        Visualizing  global software development processes,
 events, and resource bindings.    
         
  References 
          
   Advanced
 Workflow Management Technologies . This paper surveys current approaches
 to project communication and coordination, details the range of requirements
 across several related disciplines, and identifies various tradeoffs and
trends that may effect the adoption, design, and evolution of an advanced
technical workflow infrastructure. (appears in  Software Process--Improvement
and Practice , 4(3), 125-171, 1998.)  
          Supporting
  Software Development in Virtual Enterprises  This paper  presents recent
  developments in a distributed semantic hypertext framework  called DHT
that   supports software development projects within virtual enterprises.
  We show   how such hypertext functionality embodied solves the practical
 problems    of project coordination including, collaborative sharing data
 in a virtual    enterprise of distributed teams, integrating existing tools
 and environments,    and enacting software processes to coordinate development
 activities for   teams across wide-area networks. In particular, we describe
 how software   process enactment can be achieved within a virtual enterprise
 without centralized     mechanisms. This is when the process description
is represented as a user     navigable hypertext graph whose nodes associate
 process steps, staff roles,     and associated tools with designated software
 products. Overall, these  capabilities  provide support for coordinating
software development projects  across a virtual  enterprise of teams connected
via the Internet. (appears  in     Journal of Digital
Information , 1(4), February 1999). 
         
       Specifying Process-Oriented Hypertext for Organizational Computing . 
   A process-oriented hypertext links information, tools, and activities 
  into a seamless organizational web. Using such a hypertext, and process 
performer  can enact a process by browsing, and receive guidance on how to 
perform the  process activities, where to and relevant information, and what 
tools to use. The PML process modeling language provides a way for process 
engineers to specify process models in terms of activities, and the sequence 
in which they should be performed. The specifcation can be elaborated with 
descriptions  of resources and tools required and provided by activities, 
and the skills  necessary to carry out an activity. The resulting models are
then translated  into one or more process-oriented hypertexts that represent 
instances of the process currently being performed. PML includes features 
that allow the modeler to specify how the process activities should be dynamically 
linked to information and resource nodes at the time the process is performed. 
 This enables processes to be described as abstract models that can be instantiated 
  as process-oriented hypertexts in different organizational settings. (appears 
 in  Journal of Network Computing and Applications , 24(1):39-61, 2001). 
        Process-Driven 
     Intranets: Life Cycle Support for Process Reengineering . This
  paper presents an approach to process design, the technology of process-driven
  intranets  for electronic commerce, a case study applying this approach
and  technology    at ONR, and a discussion of lessons learned.(appears 
in        IEEE Internet  Computing , 1(5):42-49, 1997).  
         
      </body> 