 press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Press releases  


     
 Press release 

 
 





  June 9,  2004</strong>  Business leader and philanthropist Donald Bren awarded UC Presidential Medal</strong>  Donald Bren, chairman of The Irvine Company, today was awarded the University of California Presidential Medal, recognizing his significant contributions to UC and higher education. The medal is the university's highest honor.    UC Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs M.R.C. Greenwood presented the medal to Bren on behalf of UC President Robert Dynes at a midday ceremony celebrating the naming of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at UC Irvine. The school naming recognizes Bren's $20 million gift to ICS in December 2003, which provides for the creation of 10 endowed chairs for distinguished faculty, among other school support.    "For well over two decades, Mr. Bren's focus on the creation of endowment funds to support faculty chairs has helped bring to the University of California some of the best researchers and scholars in the nation and the world," said Dynes. "He has contributed more to support endowed chairs than any single donor in UC history, and his passionate philanthropy and commitment to educational excellence have helped strengthen the university. We are proud to bestow upon him this honor."    The Presidential Medal was established in 1997 to recognize extraordinary contributions to the UC system or the community of learning. Past recipients include former Gov. George Deukmejian, late UC President Emeritus Clark Kerr, former Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon and noted physicist and director emeritus of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Edward Teller. Recipients from Orange County have included former UCI Chancellor Laurel L. Wilkening and Irvine-based Broadcom Corp. co-founder Henry Samueli.    Privately and through his Donald Bren Foundation, The Irvine Company and related entities, Bren has directed more than $55 million to support UC programs, with the majority going to the Irvine and Santa Barbara campuses. The latter is home to the Donald Bren School of Environmental Science and Management, where Bren's support helped establish interdisciplinary approaches for researching, teaching about and solving environmental problems.    At UCI, his support created the Donald Bren Endowment, which has helped attract and retain distinguished faculty in the arts and sciences, including such internationally recognized scholars as Nobel Prize-winning chemist F. Sherwood Rowland, National Medal of Science recipient Francisco Ayala and world-renowned choreographer Donald McKayle. Other UCI beneficiaries include the Claire Trevor School of the Arts - named after Bren's late stepmother, the Academy Award-winning actress - Beckman Laser Institute, Bren Events Center and Graduate School of Management.    Bren's commitment to quality education extends beyond UC to significant support for Caltech, Chapman University, the Marine Corps University and K-12 education in Orange County.    Born in Los Angeles, Bren was raised there and in Newport Beach. He earned his bachelor's degree in business administration and economics from the University of Washington, where he also pursued graduate studies in business. Subsequently, he served as an officer in the U.S. Marine Corps. He has been chairman of The Irvine Company since 1983.    About the University of California, Irvine: The University of California, Irvine is a top-ranked public university dedicated to research, scholarship and community. Founded in 1965, UCI is among the fastest-growing University of California campuses, with approximately 24,000 undergraduate and graduate students and about 1,300 faculty members. The third-largest employer in dynamic Orange County, UCI contributes an annual economic impact of $3 billion.   
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 