 Software-Process-Course-index<body>
      Life Cycle and Process Models in Software Engineering  
  This presentation is associated with the article,  Process
Models in Software Engineering . This article provides a survey   of tools,
techniques, and concepts for alternative software process models   and modeling
capabilities, and how they can be employed to support large team-oriented
 software development projects. Appears in J. Marciniak (ed.),         Encyclopedia
of Software Engineering, 2nd. Edition , 993-1005,  Wiley, 2002. 
    Introduction    
     
   Classic Software Life Cycle   Activities       
   What is a Software Life Cycle   model ?  
 
     
    Why Model  
  the Software Life Cycle?    
     
   What is a Software Process   model  ?   
      Traditional Software Life Cycle Models  
   
   Classic Software Life Cycle     ( graphic )  
     
   Stepwise Refinement    
     
   Incremental Development and Release     ( graphic ) 
  
     
   Industrial and Military Standards, and Capability Models  
 ( graphic )  
      Software Product Development Models      
   Rapid Prototyping and Joint Application Development   
     
   Assembling Reusable Components    
     
   Application Generation    
     
   Software Documentation Support Environments  (in
  this  example ,
 see Figures 2, 3, and 4)   
     
   Rapid Iteration, Incremental Evolution, and Evolutionary
  Delivery  ( graphic ) 
  
     
   Program Evolution Models   
      Software Production Process Models      
   Non-Operational Process Models      
  The Spiral Model ( graphic )    Operational Process Models      
  Operational specifications for rapid prototyping  
     
  Software automation or Automated Software Engineering 
  (in this   example ,
 see Figures 2-8; here is  another  example )  
 
     
  Software process automation and process programming  
       Emerging Trends and New Directions      
  Software process simulation     
  Discrete-event process simulation     
  System Dynamics process simulation   
     
  Rule-based or knowledge-based simulation   
     
  Multi-agent process simulation   
     
  Process simulators  
     Web-based software process models and process engineering
  environments     
  Process Markup Language ( PML ) 
    
  PML-based   process life cycle environment  
  ( graphic ) ( demo )  
     Software process and business process reengineering  
     
  (Re)Designing software processes to improve efficiency,
  effectiveness, or optimality     
  Example of very large   software process architecture   
     Open source software development process models 
    
  How and why are open source development processes different
  from those traditional to software engineering? Examples include:              
                   
         Java   Community Process   
         IETF Standards
 Process   
          Requirements
 for Developing Open Source Software Systems   
        and much more!  
                   
      
     
             </body> 