 Visio for C2/xADL<body>
 
     
  Jie Ren (任杰)  
   Area   Software  
   Advisor   Richard N. Taylor  
   E-mail   jie@ics.uci.edu  
   
 
 
  Biography  
   Research   
    Teach    
     Work     
   Service   
 Publication 
   Contact   
 
 

 
		 Visio for C2/xADL 
		  Download!  
		 Visio for C2/xADL is a graphical front end of  
				ArchStudio 3 . It can be used to create  
				xADL 2.0  document graphically, with special support for  
				C2  architecture style
		 
		 Features
		 
		  
			Extend Microsoft Visio 2000/2002 to work as ArchStudio 3.0 front end editor
			 
			 
			Integration between COM and Java
			 
			 
			Create both generic and C2-style architectures, using drag-and-drop, supporting 
			undo and layout
			 
			 
			Full synchronization between xADL content and Visio format
			 
			 
			Support xADL 2.0's instance, type, structure, and implementation schemas
			 
			 
			Event visualization
			 
			 
			Easy installation and upgradability
			 
		  System Requirements 
		  
			Windows operating system. ( 95, 98, ME, NT, 2000, XP )
			 
			 
			Microsoft Visio 2000/2002. ( Any edition: standard, professional, technical, or 
			enterprise)
			 
			 
			Sun Java environment, JDK 1.4 or better. Make sure its bin directory is in your 
			PATH.
			 
			 
				AT&amp;T Graphviz, an open source visualization package. It can be downloaded  
					here . Make sure it's executable, dot, is in your PATH. 
		  Installation 
		 You should download/install  
				ArchStudio 3  and the required software listed above first.
		 
		 This package requires Windows Installer 2.0 to install. 
		  
			If you are using Windows XP, you already have it.
			 
			 
				If you are using Windows NT 4 and 2000, you can get Windows Installer 2.0 from  
					here .
			 
			 
				If you are using Windows 95, 98 and Me, you can get Windows Installer 2.0 from  
					here . 
		  Please download and install  
				this installation package . 
		 Notes for Visio 2003 
		 
			This program seems working with Visio 2003. Due to the change of the way that  Visio detects third-party templates , please
			add the string "Software" to both the "Templates" box and the "Stencils" box at the "Tools/Options/Advanced/File Paths" dialog of Visio 2003. The "C2" and "xADL" 
			template will appear in the "File/New" menu and in the "(Other)" category of the "Choose Drawing Type" pane. 
		 
		 
			You also need to enable macros to use this program. 
		 
		 Previous version
		 
		 
			The previous version can be found at  here.  The 
			functionality is the same, but the new version uses a custom COM/Java connector 
			that makes installation simpler and easier. The source code of the connector is 
			included in the installation package.
		 
		  User Manual 
		 You need to understand the concepts in both Visio and xADL 2.0 to use this 
			tool. 
		 Start the environment 
		 
			Start ArchStudio 3. 
		 After you start Visio, you can find a xADL solution in Software solutions 
			(Software/xADL in the New menu). You can start creating a new xADL document by 
			choose the appropriate solutions, as you would do in general Visio. 
		 Note: ArchStudio 3 and Visio will use TCP port 3333 and 4444 to communicate. Make 
			sure no other programs are using these ports.
		 
		 Use ArchStudio's FileManager 
		 Use the menu in FileManager to create, open, save xADL documents. Visio solution 
			will not do file input/output directly. 
		 Create a new document 
		  
			Choose New/xADL, you will see a blank document.  
			 
			There is an Architecture Menu. Choose "read xADL file"  
			 
				Choose one item from the list. The content of that file will be displayed 
				graphically in Visio. 
		  Open an existing document 
		 Just open the document. The system will load the Visio file and parse the 
			associated xADL document. If there is any incompatibility, it will give an 
			warning. 
		 Create Type 
		 You must have a set of component and connector types to design a software 
			architecture. The types will be displayed as Masters in Stencil, which you can 
			drag and drop to create an instance for the type. 
		 First, you need to create interface type. Choose "Create New Type" from 
			Architecture Menu. Choose "Interface Type". Type an id and a description for 
			the interface type, click OK. 
		 Second, you can create component types and connector types. Choose "Create New 
			Type" from Architecture Menu. Choose "Component Type" or "Connector Type". Type 
			an id, a description, and a signature. ( The signature should be in this format 
			"DirectionOfInterfaceType,IDofInterfaceType;...;DirectionOfInterfaceType,IDofInterfaceType; "
			) 
		 After you create types, you can either reload the xADL document (through "read 
			xADL file") if you still have a blank Visio file, or you can close the old 
			Visio file(The content in ArchStudio is not lost) and then create a new one, 
			choose "read xADL file" again. In both cases the types will be used to create 
			new stencils. 
		 Component/Connector operations 
		 To create a component or connector, drag the icon from the stencil into the 
			drawing, then type a unique name for it. Hit Esc when you finish typing new 
			name. 
		 To connect a connector to a component or another connector, drag the handle of 
			the connector to the center of the component or the other connector, release it 
			when the big red spot appears. 
		 To change the name of a component/connector, select it and type the new name. 
			Hit Esc when you are done. 
		 To delete a component/connector, select it and hit Delete. (Deleting 
			component/connector will also delete connected links.) 
		 To delete a link, select it and hit Delete. 
		 To view the property of a component/connector, right click on it and select 
			"Property" from the pop-up menu. 
		 Group Operations 
		 To create a group, select the members of group (components, connectors, and 
			subordinate groups), then choose group from Architecture Menu in the Menu bar. 
			Type the name of the group. 
		 To ungroup a group, click the group, then click it again ( The boundary would 
			change to a different line pattern. ) Right click, choose Ungroup. 
		 Using Architecture Browser 
		 To toggle the display of architecture browser, select "Architecture Browser". 
		 You can see all the components/connectors/links in the right tree. The group has 
			its members as the children. All items are sorted alphabetically. Hit on any 
			node will lead you to corresponding shape in Visio file. 
		 Sub Architecture Support 
		 Choose "Create New Structure" from Architecture menu. Input an id and a 
			description for the new ArchStructure. A new page will be created. You can add 
			new components/connectors/links to this ArchStructure. 
		 When create a new component/connector type, you can check "Use current 
			structure" box in the "Create New Type" dialog box to specify using current 
			structure as sub architecture for the newly created component/connector type. 
		 When right click on a component/connector, if its type contains sub 
			architecture, you can choose "GotoSubarchitecture" do bring in a new page for 
			the sub Architecture. 
		 Event Visualization 
		 To see the visualization, choose set sender color and set receiver color from 
			Architecture Menu, set the colors to what you want. Run the events source 
			application. You will see messages sending between components and connectors. 
		 Other Operations 
		 Toggle "Check Unique Name" will enable or disable uniqueness checking for names. 
			Disable it when you want to do multiple pasts form previous copies. 
		 "Bind xADL file" connects current Visio file to the selected xADL document, but 
			does not do any loading or checking. 

 

 
   Last Modified: 
		November 20, 2005
   
   
	 
	  
	 
	  
   
 
</body> 