 Changing the System:  Editing the Introduction<body>
   Spring 2013 —  UC Irvine  —  Information &amp; Computer Science  —  ICS 139W  —  David G. Kay   
    Changing the System: </strong>Peer Editing Guidelines for the Intro Tutorial  
 
 You will edit your assignments in groups of
two or three; you should form a group with people who are not familiar with
your system, if possible.  Take a couple of minutes to identify each other.
 We will help form groups if necessary.  
 
 As you read and comment on each other's
papers, keep in mind the purpose and audience of the paper (that is, to
introduce their system to people who are new to it).  
 
 Each editor will write down his or her comments
on the author's paper, guided by the questions below.  The editor should
be sure to write "Edited by" and his or her name.  Each author
must turn in the editor's written comments along with the revised version
of the paper.   
  
 Read your classmate's paper once through
without making any comments.  Then, write down briefly your first impressions:  
   
 How well does it do the job? Does it tell
novice users what they need to know about the system?  Does it give them
enough background and context to get them started learning the details?
 If you didn't know anything about this system, would this paper help
get you started?  
  
 Is it well organized and easy to follow?  
  
 Do mechanical errors get in the way of reading
it?  
   
 Read it again, more carefully, making minor
comments in the margins.  Focus your comments on the organization and content;
don't spend much time proofreading for spelling or grammatical errors
(which is the author's job).  
  
 Write down brief answers to these questions:  
   
 What does the author assume the audience already
knows?  What knowledge do novice users of this system already have, and
what do they need to learn?  
  
 What are the main points the author teaches
the audience?  
  
 Does the presentation explain  why  the
reader should want to know these points?  
  
 How well do you think the audience will understand
those points after reading this introduction?  
  
 What would make the presentation more effective?  
  
 How is the paper organized?  Can you draw
a clear outline or flowchart?  
   
 What is the point of each paragraph?  
  
 Does the opening paragraph engage you and
make you want to read further?  
  
 Does the closing paragraph summarize what
has been explained?  
    
 Review your comments with the author (and
vice versa).  Be sure your name is on your written responses and return
them to the author, who must include them with the turned-in version.  Likewise,
be sure to get the written comments of your editor(s).  
  </body> 