 CSEdWeek 2011 Spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 CSEdWeek 2011 Spotlight 

 
 

 
UPDATE:  Winners of AppJam Winter 2012 were announced March 6. Congratulations to Team Socially Awkward Anteaters for their app "AwkTalk," which facilitates in-person meetings where two users participate in a timed topic discussion based on their preferences, then rate each other’s social skills through the app’s prescribed categories.  Stay tuned for full coverage of the latest AppJam tournament.
 



  Bren School students build apps in one week  
 
Eight teams of Bren School students with varying levels of programming experience — ranging from proficient to none — created fully functional mobile applications or "apps" in just one week, as part of the inaugural ICS Student Council AppJam Tournament. 
 
 
The challenge: Create a mobile app that will improve the lives of UC Irvine students academically, professionally and socially.  
 
 
The results: Apps ranging from the grand prize winner, “TimeToGo,” which alerts users of their appointments at a time appropriate to their location; to second-place finisher “ZotPark,” which enables users to easily navigate the UCI parking system; and third-place winner “Groups,” a way for students to keep track of their social and academic circles.
 
 





 
 
“The ICS Student Council thought AppJam would be a great way for students to learn or master coding skills while gaining real-life team project experience,” said ICSSC project management coordinator Nikola Metulev, a fourth-year Computer Science and Engineering major. “In honor of  CSEdWeek , we also encouraged participants to build an app that would be appealing to middle and high school students." 
 
The competition kicked off Nov. 14, and the judging event, which featured presentations and demos, took place Nov. 22. Judges included John Libby, cofounder of MobilityWare, Farsheed Atef, chief technology officer and cofounder of Drumbi, and faculty members Michael Franz, Dan Frost and Shannon Tauro. Student peers also participated in the voting process. 
 
 “The entire tournament was amazing,” Tauro said. “My fellow judges and I were very impressed by what Bren School students were able to learn and accomplish during a very short and busy time in the quarter.” 
 
 
According to Metulev, most teams plan to add features to their apps before posting them to the Android market. Select apps may also be available for download from the AppJam  website  in January. ICSSC plans to organize the next AppJam Tournament during winter quarter. 
 
View the Bren School's Flickr 
 page  
for photos from the judging event. 
Click 
 here 
for the Orange County Register story about the winning team.
 
 FALL 2011 APPJAM WINNERS: 


 
  
  “TimeToGo”  1st place    
 
 
 Prize:  $500 and lunch at Google  Members:  Adithya Gajulapally (lead), Yuen Hei Lam, Kevin Lee, Jared Leung and Alexis Hoshino  App description:  Ever wonder how long it will take to get to class from your current location on campus? TimeToGo is an Android app sensitive to user location when issuing calendar reminders. The app also provides a searching capability and the ability to see friends’ schedules. Future goals for the team include implementing a tool on the app that takes into account multiple means of transportation.  Team comment:  “We learned to accommodate for everyone's busy schedules by holding meetings through Skype and Facebook, rather than meeting in person. Another valuable lesson this project reinforced was to let no one's talents go to waste. Even though we are all coming from different programming skill levels, we all wanted to contribute to the best of our abilities for the sake of our common goal.”
 


 
  
  “ZotPark”  2nd place   
 
  Prize:  $300 and Google bags  Members:  Chelsea Clark (lead), Derek Liang, Kevin Jonaitis, Myron Lozano and Delian Petrov  App description:  Designed to help students navigate the UCI parking system, ZotPark allows users to look up valid locations to park based on their permit type. ZotPark can also determine and display extra parking lots and structures available to the user, depending on time of day. Additionally, the app provides information about parking lots and permit types, as well as navigation capabilities. “When I was new to campus, I spent 20 minutes driving up and down Peltason looking for Lot 17A and no one could help me find it,” said Clark. “But this app can.”   Team comment:  “We met every day for two to three hours. We had little to no coding experience, but we pulled through with research, hard work and adrenaline.” 
 


 
  
  “Groups”  3rd place   
 
 
 Prize:  $100 and Android watches  Members:  Marc Touchette (lead), Richard Creencia, Alex Taylor, Won Kim and Weiwei Jiang  App description:  Allows users to create and join study or social groups, and makes the information available to them from any Android phone. Within Groups, users can access information like name, email and phone numbers. “It’s much more compact and discreet than Facebook because it doesn’t carry your life story,” said Touchette.   Team comment:  “This application could convince middle school students that studying computing is cool because it will allow them to keep track of their groups, too. With more and more kids using smart phones and no longer memorizing numbers, this app will allow them to easily keep track of their friends' numbers, or look up the numbers of their friends from a different phone.”
 


 OTHER PARTICIPANTS: 


 
  
 
 “Peter’s Organizer” 
 
 
 Members:  Nithin Jilla (lead), Matthew Ito, Quan Nguyen, Daryl Alfaro and Ashwin Amit  App description:  Peter’s Organizer is a calendar Android app that lists events specific to the Bren School. Events are categorized as academic, social or professional, and could be added by students either through their phone or a web page. Users may filter events by category.    Team comment:  “Many Bren School students find out about jobs through events such as company visits. We wanted an easier way for students to find about these school events, so we thought this calendar would be useful. We then decided to expand this idea to include academic events and social events as well." 


 
  
 
 “Metis” 
 
 
 Members:  Orson Teodoro (lead), Peter Cao, Justin Krakes and Sohrob Raja  App description:  Metis functions as an interactive scheduling tool, allowing users to coordinate their schedule with friends, family and fellow students through a visual timeline feature. Users may sync their schedules with another user through the merge feature.    Team comment:  “The app was inspired by our need to coordinate free time to get together to work on the app.”
 


 
  
 
 “ICS Earth” 
 
 
 Members:  Johnson Liu (lead), Zhihang Xiao, Alexander Richberg, Jonathan Stroud and Pramodh Gopal  App description:  ICS Earth was developed to help Bren School students locate professors and events on campus. The app allows users to search through a list of professors by name, phone number, office location or department, and through a list of events by name, date, time, location or category. The application also includes a campus map as a reference point.    Team comment:  “We really wanted to emphasize simplicity.” 
 


 
  
 
 “Simple Scheduler” 
 
 
 Members:  Matthew Thornton (lead), Hongde Jin, Ryan Sullivant, Irvin Huang and Phillip Huang  App description:  Allows students to input their classes and information/assignments pertaining to each class.    Team comment:  “Networking with our peers was one of the best parts of this project since we are now able to call upon each other for help or to hang out.” 
 


 
  
 
 “Anteater Events” 
 
 
 Members:  Tri Pham (lead), Chris Miliotti, Brett Buford, Ki Lee, Kelly Yin and Siripen Pongpaichet  App description:  Displays university activities to users. The activities can be user-created through the application and generated from RSS feeds around UCI. Users may view and join upcoming events, and invite other users to the event.   Team comment:  “Creating an app in one week was significantly more difficult than expected, but worthwhile.” 
  
 — Reported by Courtney Hamilton  
 — Photos by Peter Huynh
 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 