  DataVault Project Page <body>


 

 

   
   Home Page of Ravi Chandra Jammalamadaka  
   


 


 
 

        Publications:    
1.  Ravi  Chandra  Jammalamadaka ;  Sharad   Mehrotra ;  Nalini   Venkasubramanian . PVault: A Client Server System Providing Mobile
Access to Personal Data.  Proceedings of the 2005 ACM workshop
on Storage security and survivability ( StorageSS ),
2005.   (pdf)     2.  RaviChandra   Jammalamadaka ;
 Sharad   Mehrotra .   Querying Encrypted XML  documents.Proceedings 
of the IEEE International Database Engineering &amp; Applications Symposium,
IDEAS, 2006.   (pdf)    
3.  Ravi  Chandra  Jammalamadaka ;
Timothy van  der  Horst;  Sharad 
 Mehrotra ; Kent  Seamons ;  NaliniVenkatasuramanian . Delegate: A Proxy Based
Architecture for Secure Website Access from an Untrusted Machine.  22nd Annual Computer Security Applications Conference (ACSAC),    Maimi   ,   FL  , December, 2006.  (pdf)    
4.    Bijit     Hore ;    Ravi    Chandra  Jammalamadaka ;  Sharad   Mehrotra .  Flexible
Anonymization for Privacy Preserving Data Publishing: A Systematic Search based
Approach.  To appear in the proceedings of SIAM International
Conference on Data Mining 2007.   (pdf)   

     

 5.  Ravi 
Chandra  Jammalamadaka , Roberto  Gamboni ,
 Sharad   Mehrotra ,
 Kent Seamons ,
 Nalini   Venkatasubramanian .  gVault . A  Gmail  Based Cryptographic
Network File System. To appear in the proceedings  of     21st    Annual IFIP WG 11.3 Working Conference on Data and
Applications.       (pdf)     

6. Ravi Chandra Jammalamadaka. Middleware Support for Protecting Personal Data from Web Based Data Services. Middleware Doctoral Symposium, 2007. 
   (pdf)  
  

7. Ravi Chandra Jammalamadaka, Roberto Gamboni, Sharad Mehrotra, Kent Seamons, Nalini Venkatasubramanian.
iDataGuard: Middleward Providing a Secure Network Drive Interface to
Untrusted Internet Data Storage. Demo Paper. To appear in the Proceeding of International Conference on Extending Database Technology, 2008. 
 (pdf)     



8.  Ravi  Chandra  Jammalamadaka ,
 Sharad   Mehrotra , Kent  Seamons ,  Nalini   Venkatasubramanian .  DataVault :  Providing Data Sharing as a Service
  .(  Demo Paper. In submission)   

9. Ravi Chandra Jammalamadaka, Roberto Gamboni, Sharad
Mehrotra, Kent Seamons, Nalini Venkatasubramanian. DataGuard: A
Middleware Layer Providing Seamless Mobile Access to Personal Data
via Untrusted Servers. Techincal Report.   (pdf, full version)  . A shorter version
is under submission.   

10. Ravi Chandra Jammalamadaka, Roberto Gamboni, Sharad
Mehrotra, Kent Seamons, Nalini Venkatasubramanian. Providing Data Sharing as a Service.   (pdf, full version)  . 
A shorter version is under submission.


       

 


 
 Navigation 
   Home  
  Publications  
  Projects  
  Contact  
   Resume   
   Announcements 



 
 

 
 
 Web design by Cirkuit Networks, Inc. Modified by Ravi Chandra Jammalamadaka, ICS, UCI.  
  Web page created by Ravi Chandra Jammalamadaka, ICS, UCI. 
 

 
 

</body> 