 Import Menu in the Hyperweb Server<body>

  Home  

 Import Menu 

 The  Import  menu contains three commands:  Import VOV ,  Import Web , and  Import Website . The purpose of these commands is to import hypermedia information that was previously exported using the Hyperweb Server's export commands. Note: An exported text file can be imported by any Hyperweb Server. This enables the transfer of hypermedia information between Hyperweb Servers. 

   

 Operations 

 Import VOV 

 This command imports the information created by the  Export VOV  command. The information imported by this operation  replaces  the information currently stored in the VOV database. For this release, there is no concept of merging two separate VOV databases. 

 To import a VOV database, select the  Import VOV  command from the  Import  menu. 

   

 A file dialog box allows the user to specify the ASCII text file to import. 

   

 An import operation cannot proceed if a client is connected to the Hyperweb Server. A dialog box (see below) will warn the user of this situation and allow them to cancel the operation if necessary. 

   

 A dialog box will confirm the creation of the imported VOV database. 

   

 Import Web 

This command imports the information created by the  Export Web  command. A hyperweb with the same name as the imported hyperweb cannot currently exist. In this release, there is no notion of merging two hyperwebs.

  Note : You must import a hyperweb's parent before you can import the hyperweb itself. 

 To import a hyperweb, first select the  Import Web  command from the  Import  menu. 

   

 A file dialog box allows the user to specify the ASCII text file to import. 

   

 As discussed above, no clients may be connected during an import operation. If a client is connected, a dialog will appear asking if the operation should continue. 

 A dialog box will confirm the creation of the imported web. 

   

  Warning : If the hyperweb's parent does not exist, the following message will appear. 

   

 Import Website 

This command imports the information created by the  Export Website  command. This operation  replaces  the entire website currently managed by the Hyperweb Server with the imported website. In this release, there is no notion of merging two websites.

 To import a website, select the  Import Website  command from the  Import  menu. 

   

 A file dialog box allows the user to specify the ASCII text file to import. 

   

 As discussed above, no clients may be connected during an import operation. If a client is connected, a dialog will appear asking if the operation should continue. 

 A dialog box will confirm the creation of the imported website. 

   

  Home  

</body> 