 
	Technical reports – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	 			
					 
				 Technical reports  				
				 
						 2008 
  A. Sarma, J. Herbsleb, and A. van der Hoek,  Challenges in Measuring, Understanding, and Achieving Social-Technical Congruence , Technical Report CMU-ISR-08-106, Carnegie Mellon University, Institute for Software Research International, Pittsburg, 2008. 
    
 2006 
  A. Baker and A. van der Hoek,  Examining Software Design from a General Design Perspective , Technical Report UCI-ISR-06-15, Institute for Software Research, University of California, Irvine, 2006. 
 A. Baker and A. van der Hoek,  Framing Software Design with the Design Diamond , Technical Report UCI-ISR-06-11, Institute for Software Research, University of California, Irvine, 2006. 
 A. Baker and A. van der Hoek,  Reframing Software Design: Perspectives on Advancing an Elusive Discipline , Technical Report UCI-ISR-06-10, Institute for Software Research, University of California, Irvine, 2006. 
 R. Ripley, A. Sarma, and A. van der Hoek,  Using Visualizations to Analyze Workspace Activity and Discern Software Project Evolution , Technical Report UCI-ISR-06-01, Institute for Software Research, University of California, Irvine, 2006. 
    
 2002 
  C. Lüer and A. van der Hoek,  Composition Environments for Deployable Software Components , Technical Report UCI-ICS-02-18, Department of Information and Computer Science, University of California, Irvine, 2002. 
  
                
                

			
		
	

			 
				
				  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 