 CS 277: Project Proposals 

  
     Project Proposals   
     Written Proposals, due in class, Monday January 27th    CS 277, Data Mining, Winter 2014   
     
   Proposals should be relatively brief but informative. About 3 well-written pages should be sufficient.  
  Project proposals will be graded like a homework assignment and
receive a weight of 10% of your overall grade. Proposals will be graded
on clarity (is it clear what will be done in this project?) and
completeness (is the proposal well-thought out? does it address all of
the important aspects of the proposed project?)  
  Project teams are allowed (up to 3 people), or you can work on your
own. Only one project proposal should be submitted per project (include
all team member names) - all team members will get the same grade for
the proposal.    
  Your proposal will be reviewed and you will receive one of 3
responses: (1) approved without any changes, (2) approved with minor
suggestions for changes, (3) major revision required. Typically most
(if not all) proposals are in categories (1) or (2). You may begin work
on your project after submittal, but be aware that you may get feedback
from me after your proposal is submitted (within a week or so    
  See project guidelines (from the class Web page) for suggestions on
possible projects and data sets  
  Note that your project plan (your plan of what you will do) will
very likely change during the quarter as you learn more about the data
- this is fine as long as your overall goal (the task you are
addressing, the data set you are using) remains generally the same - so
no need to let me know about such changes. However, if during the
quarter your project changes in a major way from what you proposed,
then you need to let me know (email is fine).   
     
   
  Suggested Outline and Contents for your Proposal   </strong> 
      Project Definition</strong>: provide a clear description of the problem you plan to address    
    Motivation</strong>: briefly explain why this
problem is worth addressing (eg. addresses an important open research
question, tackles an important practical application, etc)    
    Background</strong>: provide a brief summary
of what is known in the literature about this problem. Provide at least
2 or 3 relevant references if you can. At this early stage of your
project proposal I don't expect a full literature review (but will
expect this by the time of the final report), but you should have some
idea of what is known in the literature about your proposed project
(for example, try to make sure that your project has not already been
done/published earlier).    
    Data sets</strong>: briefly describe the
data set (or sets) that you will use in your project - see the list of
data sets recommended under the Project Guidelines page. A brief
description is fine since these data sets are already described
elsewhere on the class Web pages. If the data set is not on the list on
the Web page, then you will need to describe your proposed data set in
more detail and provide some rationale as to why you are choosing this
data set.    
    Software</strong>: describe what algorithms
and software you plan to use in your project. Algorithms that you
will develop yourself? if so, sketch out how you think these algorithms
will work, or at least your current ideas. Algorithms that have already
been published and implemented? if so, provide brief descriptions and
references. If you plan to use someone else's implementation in
software, provide references and details to the extent that you can.    
    Evaluation method</strong>: you need to
define how you will evaluate/measure/test your results or technique.
For prediction problems, such as classification or regression, this is
typically straightforward, since techniques such as "out of sample"
accuracy are well-defined and a good indicator of your method. For
techniques such as clustering or pattern-finding, it is not so clear
how to measure success - you might for example try a clustering
algorithm on a data set where the class labels are known, but you
remove them and see if the algorithm can recover them. For such
problems you may want to look in the literature to see what evaluation
techniques are typically used. For a visualization project for example
you might want to have human users use your system and generate
subjective evaluations, e.g., comparing your method with a baseline
approach in a "blind" manner where the testers do not  know which
is baseline and which is the new method.   
   Milestones and Plan: </strong>sketch out what you think will
be the major intermediate milestones that you will need to achieve,
e.g., for each progress report and for the final report. A
bulleted list would be fine. You don't need to include every small
detail, but give a general idea of what you plan to be doing for the
next 6 or 7 weeks. And of course this plan may change as you learn more
about the data and the algorithms. Feel free to identify potential
risks in your proposal, i.e., items that might cause delay or problems.   
     
   
    
     
  
</body> 