 about<body>

 
   
         
           
                
            
                    
          The UCI Database Group             Introduction          
              Traditional
            data-integration systems use a centralized mediation approach, in
            which a centralized "mediator" accepts user queries and collects
            information from heterogeneous sources to compute answers. Recent
            database applications are seeing the emerging need to support data
            integration in distributed, peer-based environments. In such an
            environment, autonomous peers (sources) connected by a network are
            willing to exchange data and services with each other. These
            applications include supply-chain management, B2B integration, and
            Web-based file-sharing services (e.g., Napster, Gnutella, Morpheus).
            For instance, several labs at UC Irvine are conducting research
            related the Human Genome Project, and they are very willing to share
            their experimental results with each other. This sharing needs a
            distributed infrastructure, in which each lab provides its own data
            for other participants, as well as accesses data from other labs. As
            another example, recent terrorist attacks show the great need of new
            intelligence-sharing technologies, which can strengthen the ability
            to prevent, detect, and respond to existing and emerging homeland
            safety threats. Distributed data integration can make intelligence
            sharing effective to strengthen homeland security.   
              The goal of the Raccoon
            Project is to allow different information sources to share and query
            their data with each other. We are developing an infrastructure to
            allow each source to publish its own data, and query on information
            from other peers. In addition, the Internet provides a huge amount
            of rich information. It will be desirable to allow users of
            different sources to access information from the Web as well.  
             
              Recently XML is
            becoming a standard for data exchange. However, XML only makes
            sources "homogeneous" at the syntactic level, and it does not solve
            the heterogeneity of sources at the semantic level. There are also
            many problems we plan to pursue in the XML domain. 

               This project is
            partially supported by the NSF  CAREER 
            Award, No. IIS-0238586, titled "CAREER: Peer-Based Data Integration and Sharing of Heterogeneous Sources," and the NSF  RESCUE  project under Award Number 0331707.      
 

</body> 