  "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN\"&gt;

 
UCI Machine Learning Repository: Computer Hardware Data Set   
		                Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems   
	 
	 
		 
		 About  
		 Citation Policy  
		 Donate a Data Set  
		 Contact 
		 

		  
		   Repository  
		  Web  
		          
		   
		 
		


		    View 
ALL Data Sets    
		  
      

      
	 
	  Computer Hardware Data Set  
	    Download  :   Data Folder  ,   Data Set Description    

	  Abstract : Relative CPU Performance Data, described in terms of its cycle time, memory size, etc. 
      
        
          Data Set Characteristics:     
		  Multivariate  
		   Number of Instances:   
		  209  
		   Area:   
		  Computer  
	     Attribute Characteristics:   
		  Integer  
		   Number of Attributes:   
		  9  
		   Date Donated   
		  1987-10-01  
	     Associated Tasks:   
		  Regression  
		   Missing Values?   
		  No  
		   Number of Web Hits:   
		  147563  
	     Source:  
 Creator:   Phillip Ein-Dor and Jacob Feldmesser Ein-Dor: Faculty of Management  Tel Aviv University; Ramat-Aviv;  Tel Aviv, 69978; Israel  Donor:   David W. Aha ( aha  '@'  ics.uci.edu ) (714) 856-8779    

   Data Set Information:  
 The estimated relative performance values were estimated by the authors using a linear regression method.  See their article (pp 308-313) for more details on how the relative performance values were set. 

   Attribute Information:  
    1. vendor name: 30        (adviser, amdahl,apollo, basf, bti, burroughs, c.r.d, cambex, cdc, dec,         dg, formation, four-phase, gould, honeywell, hp, ibm, ipl, magnuson,         microdata, nas, ncr, nixdorf, perkin-elmer, prime, siemens, sperry,         sratus, wang)    2. Model Name: many unique symbols    3. MYCT: machine cycle time in nanoseconds (integer)    4. MMIN: minimum main memory in kilobytes (integer)    5. MMAX: maximum main memory in kilobytes (integer)    6. CACH: cache memory in kilobytes (integer)    7. CHMIN: minimum channels in units (integer)    8. CHMAX: maximum channels in units (integer)    9. PRP: published relative performance (integer)   10. ERP: estimated relative performance from the original article (integer) 

   Relevant Papers:  
 Ein-Dor and Feldmesser (CACM 4/87, pp 308-317)  Kibler,D. &amp; Aha,D. (1988).  Instance-Based Prediction of Real-Valued Attributes.  In Proceedings of the CSCSI (Canadian AI) Conference.  [Web Link]  

   Papers That Cite This Data Set 1 :  
  Dan Pelleg.  Scalable and Practical Probability Density Estimators for Scientific Anomaly Detection . School of Computer Science Carnegie Mellon University. 2004.  [ View Context ].  Yongge Wang.  A New Approach to Fitting Linear Models in High Dimensional Spaces . Alastair Scott (Department of Statistics, University of Auckland).  [ View Context ].   

   Citation Request:  
 Please refer to the Machine Learning 
Repository's  citation policy  

      [1] Papers were automatically harvested and associated with this data set, in collaboration 
with   Rexa.info    

    Supported By:  
           
           In Collaboration With:  
           
   
 
 About   || 
 Citation Policy   || 
 Donation Policy   || 
 Contact   || 
 CML 
 
 





 