 12.7 Smallest Set of Smallest Rings (SSSR) considered Harmful<body>
 
       
     
        
 OEChem - C++ Theory Manual
 
Version 1.3.1      
     
   
   
   Previous:   12.6 Identifying Ring Systems 
 Up:   12. Ring Processing 
 Next:   13. Aromaticity Processing 
   


  
12.7 Smallest Set of Smallest Rings (SSSR) considered Harmful 
 

 
In 1968, Edsger Dijkstra, one of the great pioneers of computer
science, wrote a classic paper, ``Go To Statement Considered Harmful'',
Communications of the ACM, Vol. 11, No. 3, pp. 147-148, March 1968.
The first sentence of that paper contains ``the observation that the
quality of a programmer is a decreasing function of the density of
GOTO statements in the programs they produce''.  This paper had such
dramatic impact that 35 years later most programmers know they should
avoid using ``GOTO'', but would have difficulty explaining why.

  
Dijkstra's argument was not that GOTO was evil  per se , but that it
showed that the programmer probably had given the problem enough
thought to discover a cleaner, more elegant solution without its use.
This argument is equally valid for the ``Smallest Set of Smallest
Rings'' in chemical information processing.  The use of SSSR probably
shouldn't be forbidden, but it is almost always used in algorithms for
which it is inappropriate.  Both the relatively high computational
cost,    , and the non-deterministic ambiguity in choosing SSSR
membership lead to real bugs in almost all chemoinformatics uses.
Indeed, the OEChem library itself demonstrates that its possible to
develop state-of-the-art algorithms for cycle perception, aromaticity
perception, symmetry perception and 2D depiction, without once using
SSSR.  Indeed many of the technical advantages of OEChem over its
rivals, stem from the fact that it doesn't use SSSR and its
competition do.

  
The fundamental problem is that Plotkin's original definition of
Smallest Set of Smallest Rings is not unique.  For example, the
molecule cubane, has five rings in its SSSR, as determined by the
Frérejacque number (no. of rings = no. of bonds - no. of atoms + 1).
This means that although all eight atoms are symmetric, four will be
members of three SSSR rings and four will be members of two SSSR
rings.  Obviously SSSR membership can not be used as a graph theoretical
invariant in symmetry perception.  Indeed the choice of which rings
are part of the SSSR and which are not is arbitrary, and often
dependent upon the input order of the molecule.  For example, in
aromaticity the non-determinism of ring membership can result in the same
atom being aromatic in one input ordering and aliphatic in another.
Because of this many alternative definitions to SSSR have been
proposed over the years, including Extended SSSR, the set of
``synthetically important'' rings, K-rings, etc...

  
We believe that it is a great service to our customers that we do not
include any SSSR functionality in OEChem.  This is a conscious (and consensus)
decision.  The forerunners of OEChem, babel and OELib, both contained
efficient algorithms for determining SSSR, and these remain freely
available on the Internet today.  Furthermore, many useful ring
perception routines are available in OEChem including; the ability to
detect whether an atom or bond is acyclic or part of a ring, the smallest
ring size that an atom or bond are in, the size of the smallest
aromatic ring an atom or bond are in, and whether an atom or bond are
in a ring of a particular size.

  

   Renzo Balducci and Robert S. Pearlman, ``Efficient Exact Solution of
the Ring Perception Problem'', Journal of Chemical Information and
Computer Science (JCICS), Vol. 34, No. 4, pp. 822-831, 1994.

 
  
 L. Baumer, G. Sala and G. Sello, ``Ring Perception in Organic
Structures: A New Algorithm for Finding SSSR'', Computational
Chemistry, Vol. 15, p. 293-299, 1991.

 
  
 Franziska Berger, Christoph Flamm, Petra M. Gleiss, Josef Leydold
and Peter F. Stadler, ``Counterexamples in Chemical Ring Perception'',
Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science (JCICS), Vol. 44,
pp. 323-331, 2004.

 
  
 Geoffrey M. Downs, Valerie J. Gillet, John D. Holliday and Michael
F. Lynch, ``Review of Ring Perception Algorithms for Chemical Graphs'',
Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science (JCICS), Vol. 29,
No. 3, pp. 172-187, 1989.

 
  
 John Figueras, ``Ring Perception Using Breadth-First Search'', Journal
of Chemical Information and Computer Science (JCICS), Vol. 36, No. 5,
pp. 986-991, 1996.

 
  
 Johann Gasteiger and Clemens Jochum, ``An Algorithm for the Perception
of Synthetically Important Rings'', Journal of Chemical Information and
Computer Science (JCICS), Vol. 29, No. 1, pp. 43-48, 1979.

 
  
 M. J. Plotkin, Journal of Chemical Documentation, Vol. 11, pp. 60-63,
1971.

 
  
 C. Qian, W. Fisanick D. E. Hartzler and S. W. Chapman, ``Enhanced
Algorithm for Finding Smallest Set of Smallest Rings'', Journal of
Chemical Information and Computer Science (JCICS), Vol. 30, pp.
105-110, 1990.

 
  
 Barbara L. Roos-Kozel and William L. Jorgensen, ``Computer-Aided
Mechanistic Evaluation of Organic Reactions. 2. Perception of Rings,
Aromaticity and Tautomers'', Journal of Chemical Information and
Computer Science (JCICS), Vol. 21, pp. 101-111, 1981.

 
  
 A. Zamora, ``An Algorithm for Finding the Smallest Set of Smallest
Rings'', Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science (JCICS),
Vol. 16, p. 43-48, 1979.

 
  
  

  
          
     
        
 OEChem - C++ Theory Manual
 
Version 1.3.1      
     
   
   
   Previous:   12.6 Identifying Ring Systems 
 Up:   12. Ring Processing 
 Next:   13. Aromaticity Processing 
  Documentation released on July 30, 2004. 
 


</body> 