 
	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
     
		News     
	         
		  CodeExchange – A new Java code search engine  
		 
					Posted by  lmartie  on August 12, 2014 at 11:58 am 				 
					
		 Program Java? Checkout CodeExchange, our new code search engine. 
     
    
         
		  Crowd Programming featured on ACM TechNews  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on July 30, 2014 at 10:21 pm 				 
					
		 Our work on Crowd Programming was also featured on ACM TechNews and Techwire.net. 
     
    
         
		  Press on Crowd Programming Grant  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on July 24, 2014 at 11:46 am 				 
					
		 Our work on crowd programming has been briefly featured in both the UC Irinve News and in Campus Technology. 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Gleiph  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on July 13, 2014 at 7:40 pm 				 
					
		 We have a new member in SDCL – Gleiph Ghiotto. Gleiph is a 3rd year PhD student from Fluminense Federal University. His advisor is professor Leonardo Murta. Gleiph will spend six months in our lab investigating merging and diffing approaches in open source repositories. 
     
    
         
		  Congratulations to the UC Irvine Design Competition Winners!  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on July 7, 2014 at 10:45 pm 				 
					
		 Congratulations to Ulyana Skladchikova and Matias Giorgio, two of the winners in the UC Irvine Software Design Competition. Participants first produced a design – describing either a system’s architecture and design or its user experience – and were then given some of the designs produced by others, producing a second revised design incorporating insights they […] 
     
    
         
		  Grant on Crowd Programming  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on June 13, 2014 at 5:09 pm 				 
					
		 We’re very happy to announce that the National Science Foundation has awarded SDCL a $1.4M grant to investigate the application of microtask crowdsourcing to programming. More details in the official NSF announcement. 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Danilo and William  
		 
					Posted by  Mengyao  on June 13, 2014 at 4:29 pm 				 
					
		 We have two new members in SDCL for the summer: Danilo is B.Sc. Student majoring in Computer Engineering at the Federal University of Sao Carlos, Brazil. He is a former exchange student at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign during Fall 2013 and Spring 2014. He will work with Christian on how to apply crowd […] 
     
    
         
		  Meet the SDCL Beowulf Cluster  
		 
					Posted by  lmartie  on May 18, 2014 at 4:35 pm 				 
					   
		 We needed to do some serious data mining on a budget, so we built a 45 Raspberry Pi Beowulf cluster. It’s working great and is a welcomed member of the lab :). 
     
    
         
		  SCALE meeting at UC Irvine  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on May 16, 2014 at 2:50 pm 				 
					   
		 UC Irvine hosted a meeting of the SCALE research group. SDCL had posters on several research projects. Lots of great discussion! 
     
    
         
		  Won 2nd Place in 2014 Annual Autism Appjam  
		 
					Posted by  Mengyao  on April 29, 2014 at 5:56 am 				 
					   
		 Mengyao’s team (group with Kate Ringland, Oliver Haimson, Nathan Major and Kalyda Tokhi), DanceCraft, won 2nd place and the Social Media Award in the 2014 annual autism appjam. Check more information about the project here: http://dancecraftforautism.wordpress.com/ 
     
    
    
		         
              « Previous Page  
              Next Page »  
              
         
                    
     
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 