 undergraduate degree in computer game science @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  Degrees  


     
 Computer Game Science undergraduate degree 

 
 

 Are you curious how computer games work on the inside? Do you want to learn how you can use computer games for social good? Do you have creative ideas for fun new mobile games? Can you foresee yourself programming intelligent avatars for a major title? Have thoughts about the visual appearance of new virtual worlds? 
 If you answered yes to one or more of these questions, UC Irvine’s computer game science major just might be the choice for you. 
 What will I learn? 
 The B.S. in computer game science is designed around a set of core courses that introduce the fundamentals of computer science (programming, data structures, graphics and artificial intelligence), math (statistics, linear algebra and logic), and games (games and society, game design, game engines and multiplayer games). From there, nearly thirty electives offer students the chance to specialize, focusing anywhere from typical game topics such as modeling, world building and mobile games to more peripheral topics such as software design and social impacts. 
 Throughout the major, students gain hands-on experience in creating a variety of digital games, for entertainment purposes, but also for education, training and engendering social change. Working in teams, you will employ a variety of different programming languages, game platforms and hardware. This culminates in the two-quarter capstone course, in which you will be part of a team that designs and implements a new game from scratch under the supervision of game designers from the local industry. 
 Overall, the major strongly emphasizes the technical aspects of creating games, as well as working in teams to design and implement them. You will be prepared to adapt to what are the always-changing circumstances of the profession — whether it is a new game platform, newly emerging game mechanics, or new ways of earning revenue. 
 Careers 
 Because of the strong technical underpinnings of the degree program, demand for our computer game science majors is strong. The majority find employment in the industry, whether at a major publisher, smaller studio or as self-employed freelancers. Many squarely focus on entertainment, others succeed in bringing their skills to the design and development of serious games in a variety of domains, including healthcare and education. 
 Of course, graduate school in game design, interactive media, computer science, informatics or related field is a career path that a portion of our students also choose to take after they complete the major. 
 Qualifications 
 We welcome students with a variety of backgrounds. We have had students join who were avid gamers and already knew how to program, and students who were merely curious about games and did not yet know how to program. Both groups are successful in the major. 
 If you have an interest in solving problems, aspire to creative thinking, and have an affinity with design, computer game science can be for you. 
 Why computer game science at UC Irvine? 
   Excellence</strong>. You will be part of a world-class group of faculty and staff, who have an outstanding track record of delivering innovative educational experiences in — and beyond — the classroom. 
  Depth</strong>. With no fewer than ten courses dedicated to games, and dozens more on topics closely surrounding it, you receive an education that prepares you very well for the many challenges that will arise in your future career. 
  Connections</strong>. Our alumni have gone on to study in some of the most prestigious Ph.D. programs, work for well-known, innovative corporations and found successful startups. We stay in touch with them, and can help connect you with for internships that complement your studies. 
  Location</strong>. Orange County has a very vibrant and diverse tech industry, and is just a mere hop away from Silicon Valley. 
  Detailed requirements 
 Please see the  catalogue  for a detailed description of the requirements of the computer game science major. 
 More information 

 
Prospective and current UCI students interested in learning more about the Bren School’s degree options are encouraged to meet with the school’s 
counselors and student ambassadors. They will help you determine which of our majors and minors best support your academic strengths and 
interests. Call our Student Affairs Office at 949-824-5156 to make an appointment. 



  
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 