 Dr. Jayram, Moorkanikara Nageswaran<body>   
  Dr. Jayram, Moorkanikara Nageswaran  
 
Ph.D. in  
 
 Department of Computer Science   
  University of California, Irvine  
  CA 92697-3435   

e-mail: jmoorkan   at  uci   dot   edu     "Fill the brain with high thoughts, highest ideals, place them day and night before you, and out of that will come great work"  
 
- Swami Vivekananda 
   "We shall not cease from exploration, and the end of all our exploring, will be to arrive where we started, and know the place for the first time"  
 
- T.S.Eliot 
  
   
 
     
[ Home ]
[ Research ]
[ Publications ]
[ Resume ]
[ Blogs ]
[ Hobby ]
 

  Overview of Research Interests  
   
 
I am currently working in the thesis topic related to Brain-Inspired Computing. It is an interdisciplinary topic involving the areas of Computational Neuroscience, and Computer Architecture. I have previously worked in Philips Research Eindhoven (2002-2005) in various aspects of multiprocessor system-on-chip architecture, programming and testing. 
  
My thesis advisor is  Prof. Nikil Dutt  from   CECS . My coadvisor is  Prof. Jeff Krichmar  from the Cognitive Science Department of UCI.
      NEW UPDATE:  I defended my thesis on "Framework for Modeling Spiking Neural Networks on High-Performance Graphics Processors" and started working for Brain Corporation, San Diego, CA from October, 2010  
   Please have a look at my   statement of research  and    detailed CV  to know more about my research works.
  

   Selected Works 
   

  Conference/Journal/Chapters       Towards reverse engineering the brain: Modeling abstractions and simulation frameworks,   IEEE VLSI System on Chip Conference (VLSI-SoC), 2010 18th IEEE/IFIP    (pdf)  
          A Configurable Simulation Environment for the Efficient Simulation of Large-Scale Spiking Neural Networks on Graphics Processors,   Network Networks     (online)  
	       Computing Spike Based Convolutions on GPUs  ,   Intl. Symposium on Circuits And Systems (ISCAS), 2009    (pdf)     src code  
	      Efficient Simulation of Large-Scale Spiking Neural Networks using CUDA Graphics Processors  ,   Intl. Joint Conf. on Neural Networks (IJCNN), 2009     (Best Paper Award)    (pdf)     src code   
	    Brain Derived Vision Algorithm on High Performance Architectures,   International Journal on Parallel Programming Special Issue on Bio/Nano Applications, 2009     (online)    
	   Accelerating Brain Circuit Simulations of Object Recognition with CELL Processor,   International Workshop on Innovative Architectures, 2007    (pdf)   
	   Novel Brain-Derived Algorithms Scale Linearly with Number of Processing Elements,   Parallel Computing on FPGA, 2007     (pdf)   
	   MPSoC verification using a unified random program approach,    Microprocessor Test and Verification, 2006     (pdf)    
	   A complexity effective communication model for behavioral modeling of signal processing applications,     Design Automation Conf., 2003      (pdf)    
	   Cache-Coherent Heterogeneous Multiprocessing as basis for Streaming Applications,    Dynamic and robust streaming in and between connected CE-devices   , Book chaper in Kluwers   (pdf)    
    Design Contests       D-mark: A Tiny DSP Processor for Efficient Implementation of Digital Filter and FFT,   ASP-DAC/ Intl. Conference VLSI Design, 2002     (pdf)    
	  A Scalable 8 x 8 Batcher-Banyan chips for ATM switch,   ASP-DAC/ Intl. Conference VLSI Design, 2002      (pdf)    
     Poster Presentations       Brain Circuit Simulations: Computational models and Hardware Acceleration   PhD Forum, Design Automation Conference (DAC 2009)    
         High-Performance Architectures for Accelerating Brain Circuit Simulations   Center for Cognitive Sciences, University of California, Irvine    
	  Scalable Parallel Implementations of a Brain Derived Vision Algorithm on IBM CELL processors,   Joint Symposium on Neural Computation, 2007   
	  WASABI: high-performance heterogenous mulitprocessor,   ACACES: International Summer School on Advanced Computer Architecture and Compilation for Embedded Systems, 2005  
  	   Scalable Process Network Based Application Modeling For Multiprocessors,   Conference on High Performance Computing in Asia Pacific Region, 2002     (paper in pdf)    
     Patent Filings       Multiprocessor system, testing device and method for generating cache coherence testing traffic,   Philips Research, Eindhoven  , 2006  
        Data processing system and method for monitoring the cache coherence of processing units,   Philips Research, Eindhoven  , 2006  
     Technical Report       Application level Performance Metrics Definition and Implementation on SpaceCAKE multiprocessor,   Philips Research Internal Technical note, 2003    
     Teaching/TA Work        CS 153: Logic Design Laboratory Course (Fall 2009) ,   (Useful VHDL Reference)   
          ICS 22 / CSE 22: Introduction to Computer Science II  (Spring 2010)  
     Other Articles/In News       Best Paper Award at International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN 2009)  link   
         UCI CECS News Letter article titled   "Bridging the Gap between Neuron and Silicon" ,    CECS e-Newletter Article 2008      
	  First Place in IBM CELL University Challenge 2007. Project title: "Cluster of Sony PlayStation3's For Large-Scale Brain Modeling" ( EE Times link ,  Press Release ,  Proposal ,  Poster ) 
	  New University article titled.. "  Ebook revolution cometh..."   
     Resume/Bio-data  
   
  
I completed my undergraduate degree in Electronics and Communication Engineering from Government College of Technology, Coimbatore in India. 
I pursued my Master's degree in VLSI Design, Tools and Technology at Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi (IIT-New Delhi). 
I worked for three years as a research scientist in Philips Research Labs (famously called Natlab) in Eindhoven, The Netherlands.
Since September 2005, I am pursing my doctoral studies at University of California-Irvine and hoping to graduate by 2010.
  
For more details about my on-going works please have a look at my  detailed resume .
  

  Interests / Hobby  
   
 
      I have a long  list   of books that I am reading, and many books that I am planning to read in the coming days. Also checkout some of my brief book reviews in   here  .
 	   Also check out the  lists   of some interesting talks that inspired me and educated me on many different aspects other than my main research topic. Thanks to TED, Google Tech Talks, and other open video libraries for the opportunity to listen to these amazing talks.
      Useful Links  
   
 
      Guide for PhD students (and post-docs) aiming for a successful career in science ( Nature article  and   an expanded guide ). 
 	   Useful approach to read/write articles in Tamil language:   Tamil 99 keyboard setup in ubuntu ,   blog with useful tips 
      Blogs  
   
   
 
Checkout some of my (un-edited) blogs...(TODO: hoping to clean them all soon....)
       http://jarjarintelluride2008.blogspot.com  : Blog about the Telluride Neuromorphic Workshop 2008.  
            http://flowingmind.blogspot.com/  : Some interesting ideas/educational videos/thoughts... 
        
	      
   

 
   
 

  

Last modified: May 2011
</body> 