 Values in Design Fellows honored at iConference 2013 » EVOKE Lab and Studio 


  



 

		
		 
			 EVOKE Lab and Studio 
		 


		   Home  
  About  
  News  
  Events  
  Projects  
  People  
  Blog  
  Contact  
   
 

					
		 
			 You Are Viewing 
			 A Blog Post 
		 

		 
			 
			

				
				 Values in Design Fellows honored at iConference 2013 
					 
						  March 3, 2013 
							 By  Cory Knobel  
							 In  News ,  Values in Design  
							 4 Comments 
						  

					
					 

						 The  2013 iConference , held in Fort Worth, TX in mid-February, saw a number of entries from the Values in Design community. In the conference awards ceremony, two entries from VID-related work garnered top awards. 
  2012 VID Fellow  Jaime Synder  of Syracuse University shared the award for  best dissertation , entitled “Image-Enabled Discourse; Investigating the Creation of Visual Information as Communicative Practice .”   
 2012 VID Fellows  Amelia Acker  (UCLA),  Matt Burton  (Michigan),  Melissa Chalmers  (Michigan),  Thomas Lodato  (Georgia Tech), and  Grant Wythoff  (Princeton), advised by EVOKE Executive Director  Cory Knobel , received the Best Project Award in the Microsoft FUSE Labs Social Media Expo for  AmpDamp , a physical dial knob and accompanying browser plugin that controls the “volume” of voices in social media newsfeeds .  Read more about it  here . 
  Also making appearances at the conference were: 
  2012 VID Fellows  Hale Thompson  (UIUC),  Jes Koepfler  (Maryland),  Katherine Sydenham  (Michigan), and  Anna Hoffman  (UW-Milwaukee) with a poster from their VID 2012 Summer Workshop Project, “RealTalk: A Toolkit for Community Engagement, Transparency, and Mobile Governance.” 
 PhD student   John Seberger   (EVOKE) and   Cory Knobel   with a poster, “Emerging Configurations of Scholarly Communication.” 
   Cory Knobel   with  Leanne Bowler  and  Nora Mattern  (University of Pittsburgh) with a poster, “Exploring Cyberbullying through Visual Narratives.” 
   Judith Gregory   (EVOKE) and   Stephen Slota   (EVOKE) attending “Digital Youth Workshop: Calling all Designers, Researchers, and Policy Makers” as well as serving as representatives of the Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Science at UC-Irvine. 
  Another notable event was the announcement that the UC-Irvine Department of Informatics will host the 2015 iConference, chaired by Professor  Gary Olson , Donald Bren Chair of Information &amp; Computer Science. 

					 

				 
				
	 
		 4 Comments 
	 

	  

			 
				
					  
			 
				 Faux leather movie style jacket  on January 6, 2015			 


			 

												
				 Black remains safe and secure and can work with numerous clothes in your wardrobe. 
Shiny is also big this coming year, with a lot 
of sparkle in the accessories and also the fabrics. 

						 
			  Reply  

		
		 
		
		 

			 
				
					  
			 
				 Jobs in Muscat  on January 6, 2015			 


			 

												
				 Transcription is yet another popular work at home job. The main element to landing the first 
is to accomplish some in-depth research. These types of sites are available throughout the web. 
Don’t limit yourself by searching local cities only. 

						 
			  Reply  

		
		 
		
		 

			 
				
					  
			 
				 Oman Corporate Training  on January 6, 2015			 


			 

												
				 See below for more information regarding how to obtain these training materials. 
This just frustrated me, and that i wound up 
having behavioral problems in college. The teachings they learn will be used for a very long time. 

						 
			  Reply  

		
		 
		
		 

			 
				
					  
			 
				 Working in Muscat  on January 6, 2015			 


			 

												
				 Think about every one of the unproductive processes I am going to 
trigger when I eventually affect the bank. Your trainers can then concentrate on their business best – developing skills. 

						 
			  Reply  

		
		 
	  
	   
	 


								 
				 
					 Leave a Reply 
				 
				  Cancel reply  
									
																										 Name* 
					 Email* 
					 Website 
					 Comment*  
							 
						    					
							 
											
				 

				


			

		  
	 




 
	 

		 

 

	

		

  		 		  Recent Posts  		  
				 [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster 
						 
					 
				 My Day as a Data Dealer 
						 
					 
				 Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes 
						 
					 
				 Hollowing ‘I’ in the authorship of letters: A note on Flusser and surveillance 
						 
				     Recent Comments     zapyadownload.co/  on  My Day as a Data Dealer    apk for pc  on  Social Capital    http://www./  on  Social Capital    chhota bheem  on  Social Capital    http://www./  on  Social Capital       Archives  		   June 2014  
	  March 2014  
	  October 2013  
	  May 2013  
	  April 2013  
	  March 2013  
		     Categories  		   Values in Design 
 
	  Knowledge Infrastructures 
 
	  Data/Self 
 
	  Emerging Configurations 
 
	  Blog 
 
	  News 
 
		     Meta  			   Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  						  
	 

 

 
 
			 
 
		  Recent  News  
   Health Data Exploration report published   (3/13/2014)   -   The final report from the Health Data Exploration project has been published by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation! Three EVOKE members – Dr. Matthew Bietz, Dr. Judith Gregory, and Dr. Scout Calvert – collaborated with researchers at the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology (Calit2) at UCSD (Kevin Patrick, PI) to conduct the research […]    Cory Knobel receives iConference 2014 best paper award   (3/7/2014)   -   Dr. Cory Knobel, executive director of the EVOKE Lab &amp; Studio, received the Lee Dirks Memorial Award for best paper at the 2014 iConference, held in Berlin, Germany on March 4-7, along with co-authors Dr. Leanne Bowler and Eleanor Mattern of the University of Pittsburgh iSchool. The paper, Developing Design Interventions for Cyberbullying: A Narrative-Based […]    Bowker co-organizing White House OSTP Conference on Big Data and Privacy   (3/6/2014)   -   Dr. Geoffrey C. Bowker, scientific director of the EVOKE Lab &amp; Studio and UCI professor of informatics, will be co-organizing a national panel sponsored by the White House Office of Science &amp; Technology Policy and the Data &amp; Society Research Institute.on March 17 at NYU with collaborators Helen Nissenbaum (NYU), danah boyd (Microsoft Research/Data &amp; […]    Evoke members @ Western Humanities Alliance 2013   (10/21/2013)   -   Geoffrey C. Bowker, Cory Knobel, and John S. Seberger will be presenting on ‘Emerging Modes of Knowledge Expression’ at the annual meeting of the Western Humanities Alliance at University of California, San Diego on November 1, 2013. The conference is hosted by the UCSD Center for the Humanities. The theme of the conference is New […]    Bietz and Gregory speak at “Moving Genomics from Bench to Bedside” workshop   (5/31/2013)   -   EVOKE members Matthew Bietz and Judith Gregory were recently invited to speak at the Moving Genomics Research from Bench to Bedside: Science, Technology &amp; Society Perspectives workshop on May 24, 2013. The workshop was hosted by Ellen Balka in the School of Communication at Simon Fraser University, with additional support from the Michael Smith Foundation […]    Values in Design for Collaborative Systems at CTS 2013   (5/31/2013)   -   Lab members Matthew Bietz, Cory Knobel, and Katie Pine presented a tutorial on Values in Design for Collaborative Systems at the 2013 International Conference on Collaboration Technologies and Systems in San Diego. In the tutorial we provided an introduction to human-centered computing, explored the Values in Design concept, and then worked through a series of […]    Geof Bowker Speaks at NYU   (4/9/2013)   -   Along with Sara Hendren (Harvard), Geof will be a speaker in the PROGRAM series at NYU organized by the departments of Media, Culture and Communication, English, and Comparative Literature. More event details can be found here. Values in Technological Design Abstract: The goal for many designers of technology is to produce objects that are useful, […]    Geof Bowker Speaks at Michigan   (4/9/2013)   -   Geof will be speaking as part of the Yahoo! Lecture Series at the University of Michigan’s School of Information on April 10, 2013. The End of the Article Abstract: In this talk, I analyze the development of the scientific article as the coin of the realm for the transmission of knowledge. I argue that the […]    Values in Design Fellows honored at iConference 2013   (3/3/2013)   -   The 2013 iConference, held in Fort Worth, TX in mid-February, saw a number of entries from the Values in Design community. In the conference awards ceremony, two entries from VID-related work garnered top awards. 2012 VID Fellow Jaime Synder of Syracuse University shared the award for best dissertation, entitled “Image-Enabled Discourse; Investigating the Creation of […]     
 

		 EVOKE Lab &amp; Studio @ University of California-Irvine © 2017   ^ Top  

	 
</body> 