 Graduate Student Profiles @ the Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>

 This site will look much better in a browser that supports  web standards , but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device. 
   

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










      Bren school home  &gt;  Graduate  &gt;  Profiles  
    
 Graduate Student Profiles 
 
 




  

                  

                 Alexander Behm 
                Ph.D. in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 John Brock 
                1st-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Ellie Harmon 
                4th-year Ph.D. student in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Sun Young Park 
                4th-year Ph.D. student in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Arjun Satish 
                5th-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Nicole Miya Sylvester 
                2nd-year Ph.D. student in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Tianbing Xu 
                4th-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science  
                

















 


 

       2012-13 Google Ph.D. Fellow 
 


 

        Arjun Satish 
                     Arjun Satish is one of two Bren School recipients of the 2012-13 Google Ph.D. Fellowship Award. Satish was recognized for his research in "CueNet: A Context Discovery Framework for Personal Photos." He was nominated by Bren Professor Ramesh Jain, a past recipient of the Google Faculty Research Award. 
 


 

       Where are you from? 
                          I was born in Bangalore, India. I spent most of my childhood moving around different parts of the country before coming to UCI.  What are your previous academic degrees? 
                          I have a bachelor of engineering in Electronics and Communications from Sir MVIT, an engineering college in Bangalore.  Why did you choose to pursue graduate studies at UCI? 
                          I learned about computers while tinkering with my Linux box in India. Two years into my undergrad studies, I was working on a project that involved making a log of personal conversations. Each time a user met somebody, it would make an entry saying, "You met X, and talked about Y." The project was a lot of fun, introduced me to what computer science is, and made me realize the importance of principled thinking and understanding computing as a science, and not just hacking. I came to UCI for an M.S. degree, but after speaking to Professor Ramesh Jain a couple of times, I just couldn't resist the idea of staying on for a Ph.D.  What is your current research focus? 
                          Human beings are known to behave contextually rather than logically. Computers are not like that. They always behave very logically in any situation. In a nutshell, I'm building CueNet, a computational framework that would somehow use context to make decisions. For CueNet, context comes from personal devices like mobile phones or personal calendars/emails, social networks, websites like Yelp, or conference calendars. CueNet magically "senses" the data present on these sources and tries to conclude what a user is doing (e.g., Is he at a concert, a meeting or an academic conference?), and who he is with (e.g., friends from high school, family or colleagues from a previous job).  Why did you choose to go into this field of study? 
                          I started working on Prof. Jain's photo management project, where we were trying to use events to organize photos. One thing led to another, and we hit head first into a blurry picture of CueNet. We have been trying to understand and realize it ever since.
                                     While in photo management, we used to take photos of everything we did, 
                                       such as the first " paper design " of CueNet.
                                     It took a whole year to take it from that piece of paper, to a real algorithm. It took a vital tip from my co-advisor, Dr. Amarnath Gupta, before we finally started to crack it.    What are your future plans? 
                          I'm open to any sector – industry or academia – as long as I get to go deeper in the area I'm working in. (It should keep me occupied.)   How do you like to spend your time outside of school? 
                          I love tasting food from different parts of the world, so I often try out different restaurants in the area. It is surprising how much variety one can find in Southern California. Besides that, I like listening to all kinds of music, going to concerts. I dabble in bad photography now and then.  Any words of wisdom for prospective grad students looking to study at UCI? 
                          Not sure if I'm the right person to give advice – I still haven't made it out alive! But one token of advice I would give students who want to pursue research is the following: The nature of any Ph.D. program forces students to work alone. (Each student has to produce their own unique dissertation – no group work!) In CS, the scope of the problems is getting bigger and, therefore, harder to tackle single-handedly. So make sure you discuss your problem and solution space with people from different areas as often as you can. Their feedback might sound "harsh" sometimes, but it's better to "fail" early than later. 
 


 



  




 
 
 
   Quick Links   
                        
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 

</body> 