 ICS 141 Course Reference * Winter 2000<body>
  
 
 W INTER  Q UARTER  2000
--  Information and Computer Science 
--  UC Irvine   
 
 ICS 141 Course Reference
   P ROGRAMMING  L ANGUAGES   
   
  Instructor:    David G. Kay ,
408E Computer Science ((949) 824-5072;    kay@uci.edu   )  
 
  Course goals:   The universe of programming
languages is much broader than C++ and Java, nor are those languages the
best ones to use in every programming situation.  In this course we will
explore a broad range of approaches to programming, the technical principles
and characteristics of different programming languages, and the issues that
programming language designers must consider (which will prepare you for
ICS 142, which covers compilers).  
 
  Prerequisite courses and concepts: 
 We expect each student to have completed the prerequisite courses, ICS
23 and ICS 51, and to understand the basics of symbolic logic (propositional
and predicate calculus, from a course like Math 6B).  We also expect you
to have these basic computing skills:  Searching and browsing the Web, reading
and sending Email, downloading files, and viewing and printing PDF (Adobe
Acrobat) documents.  
 
  Meeting place and times:   Lecture meets
Tuesdays and Thursdays from 11:00 to 12:20 in PSCB 120.  Our teaching assistants,
Linda Giang (   lhgiang@uci.edu   )
and Amanda Hui (   huia@uci.edu   )
will be available in the third-floor lab (CS 364) as follows:  Mondays 8:00
to 9:50 (Amanda), 10:00 to 11:50 (Linda), and 2:00 to 3:00 (Linda); Tuesdays
2:00 to 3:00 (Amanda); Thursdays 5:00 to 6:00 (Amanda); Fridays 2:00 to
4:00 (Linda).  Linda will lead the discussion section, which meets Fridays
from 10:00 to 10:50 in Social Science Lab 128.    
 
  Office hours:   I will be in or near
my office during these scheduled hours, during which course-related matters
will have first priority:  Tuesdays from 3:00 to 4:00 and Thursdays from
1:00 to 3:00.  Of course emergencies may come up, but I will try to give
advance notice of any change. If I'm not immersed in something else,
I'll be glad to answer short questions whenever I'm in my office,
so feel free to drop by any time.  I'll also be happy to make appointments
for other times during the week.  
 
  Questions and announcements:   You can
usually get a response to your course-related questions within a few hours
(perhaps a bit longer on the weekends) by sending electronic mail to the
ID    ics141@uci.edu   .
 This goes to both the TAs and the instructor, so whoever reads it first
can respond.  If you need to reach one of us individually, our individual
IDs appear above.  
 
 We may also send course announcements by Email
to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email regularly.
 Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
has for you (your UCInet ID).  If you prefer to read your Email on another
account, you should set your UCInet account to forward your Email to your
preferred account; you can do this on the web at    http://phwww.cwis.uci.edu/cgi-bin/phupdate   .  
 
 This course has a home page at    http://e3.uci.edu/00w/36181   
(which you can reach more mnemonically from    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay   ,
the instructor's home page);    http://e3.uci.edu/00w/w3m3/36181 
  holds an archive of official course
Email; and a course Note Board for student-to-student discussions is available
at    http://e3.uci.edu/00w/36181/NB   .
 We don't use a news group for this course.  
 
  Labs and lab hours:   For your computer-based
work in this class, you may use the ICS open lab in CS 364.  The machines
there are available on a first-come, first-served basis.  The lab is open
most of the time; for details about hours and other policies, see    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~lab   .
 Note in particular that all ICS labs are closed on university holidays.  
 
 Most of our work will use Windows NT but some
may use Unix; if you're not familiar with Unix, you may wish to consult
OAC's Unix guide,    http://www.oac.uci.edu/help/manuals/uci.unix.guide/   .  
 
  Textbook:    Concepts of Programming
Languages,  4th edition, by Robert W. Sebesta.  You can download PDF
or PowerPoint slides for each chapter from    ftp://ftp.aw.com/cseng/authors/sebesta/concepts4e/   .  
 
  Course structure:
    Homework assignments , 
some in the lab and some with pencil and paper (30% of the course grade)
  One midterm,  given in lecture on Thursday, February 10 (30%)
  One final exam,  on Tuesday, March 21, from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
 (40%)
   One optional programming languages web page , 
details of which are available below.  Students' pages from Fall 1999
are at    http://e3.uci.edu/~36258f99/PL/   
.  
 
 We will determine final grades neither on
a formal curve (with equal numbers of As and Fs, Bs and Ds, and so on) nor
on a fixed, straight scale.  We will guarantee that overall scores over
90% will receive an A- or better, scores over 80% a B- or better, and scores
over 70% a C or better, but the actual cutoffs may be lower.  
 
 The homeworks should give you experience applying
and understanding the concepts of the course.  The ultimate answer is just
how you know you've done it correctly; what's more important is
the process you follow to get the answer, because that's where the learning
takes place.  We expect that you will work with the TA and each other (within
reason; see below) to gain that understanding.  We expect everyone to have
the right answers and know how they reached them, so we expect most homework
scores to be high (so long as the assignments are completed thoroughly and
carefully).  
 
 We expect you to help your classmates with
the mechanics of the new and unfamiliar programming languages and environments
you'll be using.  Discussions among students about language features
and course concepts are not only permitted, they are expected.  To avoid
running afoul of the department's policies on academic honesty, however,
you should be careful not to  copy  anybody else's work (either
on paper or electronically).  If you cannot produce the correct results
yourself without a copy of someone else's answers, you don't understand
the concepts well enough to get a satisfactory score on the exams.  
 
  What you must do this week to get started
in ICS 141:
  -- If you do not have a UCInet ID (an account on the EA system for Email),
get one.  See    http://www.oac.uci.edu/computing/activate.html   .
 
-- If you do not have an ICS account for access to Windows NT and Unix,
get one.  See    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~lab/procedures/activate.html   .
 
-- Give a snapshot of yourself (with your name written on the back) to your
TA.  This will help us learn your names quickly.  (This is not just for
fun--it's a course requirement.)  Also turn in your signed Questionnaire
to your TA in discussion section.  
 
  Good advice and helpful hints:   
 
 Check your electronic mail regularly; this
is an official channel for course announcements.  
 
 Make every effort to attend the lectures;
we will make important announcements and sometimes cover material that isn't
found in the textbook.  It's not fair to ask the TAs simply to repeat
lecture material you missed, though of course they will answer questions
about it.  
 
 Attend your discussion section, too; assignments
will be distributed, discussed, and collected there, exams will be reviewed
there, and you can ask more questions there than you can in lecture.  Discussion
section is where you will get advice and information specific to the assignments;
missing your section is like doing the assignments with both hands tied
behind your back.  Don't hesitate to ask your TA to cover things that
will help you.   
 
 Always keep your own copy of each assignment,
both on diskette and on paper; if an assignment should get lost in the shuffle
(or if a file server in the lab should crash, which has happened), we'll
expect you to be able to supply a replacement easily.  
 
 If you find yourself having trouble or getting
behind, speak with your TA or the instructor.  But  never  take the
shortcut of copying someone else's work and turning it in; the consequences
can be far worse than just a low score on a lab assignment.  The ICS department
takes academic honesty very seriously; for a more complete discussion, see
the ICS departmental web page covering academic honesty issues:  
 http://www.ics.uci.edu/~ucounsel/continuing_students/cheat.html   .  
 
 Students usually receive grades of B or better
when they follow this advice; nearly everyone who receives lower grades
doesn't.  
   
  Approximate course outline:  
        
  Week   
 
  Date   
 
  Topic   
 
  Chapters in Sebesta    
   
 1.  
 
 11 January  
 
 Introduction to the study of programming languages  
 
 1   
   
  
 
 13 January  
 
 Historical development of high-level languages  
 
 2   
   
 2.  
 
 18 January  
 
 Programming paradigms  
 
  
   
  
 
 20 January  
 
  Scheme and functional programming   
 
 14   
   
 3.  
 
 25 January  
 
 More on functional programming  
 
  
   
  
 
 27 January  
 
 Describing syntax and semantics  
 
 3   
   
 4.  
 
 1 February  
 
 Names, type checking, and scope  
 
 4   
   
  
 
 3 February  
 
 Data types  
 
 5   
   
 5.  
 
 8 February  
 
 Expressions and assignment  
 
 6   
   
  
 
 10 February  
 
  Midterm exam   
 
  
   
 6.  
 
 15 February  
 
 Prolog and logic programming  
 
 15   
   
  
 
 17 February  
 
 More on logic programming  
 
  
   
 7.  
 
 22 February  
 
 Control structures  
 
 7   
   
  
 
 24 February  
 
 Subprograms  
 
 8   
   
 8.  
 
 29 February  
 
 Implementing subprograms  
 
 9   
   
  
 
 2 March  
 
 Abstract data types  
 
 10   
   
 9.  
 
 7 March  
 
 Support for object-oriented programming  
 
 11   
   
  
 
 9 March  
 
 Concurrency  
 
 12   
   
 10.  
 
 14 March  
 
 Exception handling  
 
 13   
   
  
 
 16 March  
 
 Epilogue and review  
 
  
   
  
 
 21 March  
 
  Final Exam,  Tuesday, 10:30-12:30  
 
  
   </body> 