 Sensors to Persona – Ramesh Jain 
	
	 
				 
		 
								 
				   							
		 Search 
		
					  
								 
									Ramesh Jain								 
							 
														 Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher 
																
				 
	 	
		
	    About Ramesh 
   News  
	  Events  
  
  Towards Weaving the Visual Web  
  Research 
   Books  
	  Patents  
	  Presentations  
	  Projects  
	  Research Papers 
	   Computer Vision  
		  Experiential Computing  
		  Multimedia Information Management  
	  
  
  Teaching 
   Current Courses  
	  Past Courses  
  
  Entrepreneurship 
   Current Companies  
	  Past Companies  
  
  Partners 
   Current Students  
	  Past Students  
	  Collaborators  
  
  Professional/Social 
   Services  
	  Recognitions  
	  Interviews  
  
  Personal 
   Affiliations  
	  Education  
	  Favorite Books  
	  Favorite Quotes  
  
  Digital India: A potentially transformative opportunity  
  Navigation    
					 

 
	

 
    	 
    				Sensors to Persona    			 
  			 
    			     
  			 
  			 	        			
    			 
    				 By  Ramesh   |
    				  March 2, 2013   |
    				 
    				             		  2 Comments   |
             	 		          				
    			 
    		 

  						  
				 
			  

	
			 
			2 thoughts on “ Sensors to Persona ”		 

		  
		  Arnab Sen   March 3, 2013 at 11:59 pm 			 Prof. Ramesh Jain, 
 Loved going through your note above;very though provoking and creative, which I could relate to. From the beginning I have always felt that the Medical system that we follow needs to be reformed and modified. The biggest anomaly that I find is, though we are all aware that each and every human being, though structurally similar,  is unique in his own way based on his genetic and biological and genetic back ground. Added to this his personal lifestyle , habits, food intake etc make him  a lot different from his other compatriots. However when he falls sick and visits a physician for treatment, he is made to go through a  standard diagnostic process based on a universally conventional logical process, and then treated with medicines which again are of general nature. No wonder such a treatment, though manages to heal the patient for the present disease is most likely to create side effects, which in the long run could be extremely detrimental to him.  
 The increase in the number of cancer patients and other life threatening diseases and viruses I feel could be a result of our such blanket treatment of the patients, using  general dosages of medicine. Those who have been to homeopathic practitioners would appreciate that the Homeo docs. would normally take recourse  to such personalized treatments ( by asking many personal questions, before prescribing any medicine) and hence leading to less side effects and finding a more holistic cure of the disease.   
 Your effort through this project I feel will be in this direction towards a more personalized treatment, and will surely be very much successful, as it would be more in line with our nature, that says, each one of us is a unique being with unique problems. 
 My best wishes for your work, and would love to remain connected on this in the future. 
 Regards, 
 Arnab Sen 
							 
							 
		 
	 
		  Ramesh   Post author   March 4, 2013 at 12:03 am 			 Thanks, Arnab.  I appreciate your comments.  This is a growing area and very important for all of us. 
							 
							 
		 
		  
		 Leave a Reply   Cancel reply   			
				  Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  *    Comment     Name  *    
  Email  *    
  Website   
  			
			 
	
 
		  


 
	


  


	    

	   
	   	
	   
	    
				 
			 
				    Copyright © 2017   Ramesh Jain   |  Theme by:   Theme Horse   |  Powered by:   WordPress    
			   Back to Top  		 

	 

</body> 