 Jim Whitehead: Research and Papers <body>
 
   
    Jim Whitehead: Research and Papers
   
 
 
   
 J im has been performing research as a Ph.D. student
in Information and Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine,
as part of the   Arcadia 
consortium. Jim's research lies in five areas:
   
    Distributed Authoring on the World Wide Web
    
    Versioning and Configuration Management of Hypermedia
    
    Open Hypermedia Systems
    
    Software Architecture
    
    Software Development Environments
   
     
  Distributed Authoring on the World Wide Web
 
 
The World Wide Web was originally conceived as an interactive, read/write
medium, and it is only the early dominance of the Mosaic browser which cast
the Web into its current publish/browse paradigm.  While the HyperText
Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1) contains limited support for remote authoring
in addition to remote browsing of content, this support is not sufficient
for collaborative authoring of web content.  Jim is the Chair of the
 Internet Engineering Task Force 
 World Wide Web Distributed
Authoring and Versioning (WEBDAV)  Working Group, which is developing
interoperability specifications for how to perform remote authoring and
versioning of web content.

  
The distributed authoring and versioning working group has held
many meetings.  For a complete list of meetings, their minutes,
and presentations given at the meetings, consult the
 WebDAV Home
Page .


  
  
Requirements for a Distributed Authoring and Versioning Protocol for
the World Wide Web  
Judith Slein, Fabio Vitali, E. James Whitehead, Jr., David Durand 
Internet Informational Request for Comments 2291.  February, 1998.

  
 
Collaborative Authoring on the Web: Introducing WebDAV 
E. James Whitehead, Jr. 
Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science, Vol. 25,
No. 1, October/November, 1998, pages 25-29.


  
  
WebDAV: IETF Standard for Collaborative Authoring on the Web  
E. James Whitehead, Jr., Meredith Wiggins 
IEEE Internet Computing, Vol. 2, No. 5, September/October, 1998, pages
pages 34-40.

  
  World
Wide Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning (WEBDAV): An
Introduction  
E. James Whitehead, Jr. 
ACM StandardView, Vol. 5, No. 1, March, 1997, pages 3-8.
  

  Collaborative
Work: Distributed Authoring and Versioning  
Gail Kaiser, Jim Whitehead 
Column in IEEE Internet Computing, March/April, 1997, pages 76-77.
  
 
Software Engineering and the WWW: The Cobbler's Barefoot Children,
Revisited 
Roy T. Fielding, E. James Whitehead, Jr., Kenneth M. Anderson,
Gregory A. Bolcer, Peyman Oreizy, Richard N. Taylor 
UCI-ICS Technical Report 96-53, November 1, 1996.
  
 Distributed Authoring on the World Wide
Web, Informal Working Group Meeting 
E. James Whitehead, Jr. 
World Wide Web Journal, Fall 1996, Vol. 1, No. 4, pages 75-77.
  
  Requirements
on HTTP for Distributed Content Editing  
E. James Whitehead, Jr. 
Work-in-Progress, Internet-Draft draft-whitehead-http-distreq-00, reprinted
in the World Wide Web Journal, Fall 1996, Vol. 1, No. 4, pages 239-244.
  
  Final
Report of the San Mateo Meeting of the Working Group on Distributed Authoring
on the World Wide Web  
Edited by E. James Whitehead, Jr. 
UCI-ICS Technical Report 96-32, August 9, 1996.
  
     
  Versioning and Configuration Management of Hypermedia
 
 
The promise that hypermedia technology holds for allowing software developers
to capture the relationships between the software documents they produce
(requirements, design, source code, test cases, etc.) and easily browse through
their project information space will only be realized once hypermedia systems
can support versioned links among versioned artifacts, which can be meaningfully
grouped into configurations. Providing this support has been the goal of
Jim's research into versioning and configuration management of hypermedia.
  
Jim was a participant in the first Workshop on Versioning in Hypertext Systems,
held at ECHT'94 where he presented a proposal for adding versioning support
to the Chimera open hypermedia system. He was also a member of the panel,
 
"Things Change: Deal with It! Versioning, Cooperative Editing, and Hypertext," 
at Hypertext'96. Jim additionally discussed issues of hypertext versioning
and configuration management as a participant at the
  Sixth
International Workshop on Software Configuration Management , held before
the 18th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE18), held
March 25-26, 1996, in Berlin, Germany.
  
Versioning and configuration management are important issues for the World
Wide Web. To ensure the future web provides good support in this area, in
May, 1996, Jim gathered representatives from software configuration management
firms, document management companies, WWW researchers, hypertext versioning
researchers, and HTTP server authors together to form the
  Working Group on Versioning
and Configuration Management of World Wide Web Content . This group was
subsumed by the  Working
Group on Distributed Authoring and Versioning on the World Wide Web
(webdav)  in early September, 1996.

  
The topic of managing WWW content was the subject of a talk which Jim,
along with Martin Cagan (then at Continuus Software, now at Netscape),
gave at the symposium "Wired: The Internet and the World Wide Web"
(May, 1996), sponsored by the Irvine Research
Unit in Software ( IRUS ), titled
  WWW Content Management:
Emerging Problems, Emerging Solutions . This talk was also presented at
the Bay Area Roundtable
( BART ) in May, 1996.
  
  
A Proposal for Versioning Support for the Chimera System  
E. James Whitehead, Jr., Kenneth M. Anderson, Richard N. Taylor   Proceedings
of the Workshop on Versioning in Hypertext Systems , held in connection
with ECHT'94, Edinburgh, Scotland, September, 1994, pages 45-54.
  
   SCM and Hypertext Versioning:
A Compelling Duo  
E. James Whitehead, Jr. 
Position paper for Sixth International Workshop on Software Configuration
Management, held with ICSE18, Berlin, Germany, March, 1996.
  
     
  Open Hypermedia Systems
 
 
Before focusing on the versioning aspects of open hypermedia, Jim worked
with Ken Anderson and Prof. Dick Taylor on the
 Chimera 
open hypermedia system. Chimera provides hypermedia infrastructure for use
within a software development environment. Due to its openness, Chimera can
provide hypermedia functionality within existing tools such as vi, FrameMaker,
an MPEG player, etc. Jim's research on the Chimera project has focused on
these client application integrations with the Chimera system. As a thought
experiment, Jim also considered an integration of Chimera with the WWW. 

  
  Control Choices and Network
Effects in Hypertext Systems  
E. James Whitehead, Jr. 
Proceedings of Hypertext'99, the 10th ACM Conference on Hypertext and
Hypermedia, pages 75-82.

  
  
A Critique of the Open Hypermedia Protocol  
Kenneth M. Anderson, Richard N. Taylor, E. James Whitehead, Jr.  
Journal of Digital Information , Vol. 1, No. 2, December 1997.  Note: To access this article, you must perform a 
 free registration 
first. 

  
  
An Architectural Model for Application Integration in Open
Hypermedia Environments  
E. James Whitehead, Jr. 
Proceedings of Hypertext'97, the Eighth ACM Conference
on Hypermedia Technology, pages 1-12.

  
  Interoperability
and Open Hypermedia Systems  
Uffe Kock Wiil, E. James Whitehead, Jr. 
In Proceedings of the  
3rd Workshop on Open Hypermedia Systems , held 
with Hypertext'97, Southampton, UK, April 6-7, 1997.

  
  Chimera:
Hypertext for Heterogeneous Software Environments  
Kenneth M. Anderson, Richard N. Taylor, and E. James Whitehead, Jr. 
In Proceedings of the 1994 European Conference on Hypermedia Technology,
ECHT'94, Edinburgh, Scotland, September, 1994, pages 94-107.
  
  
Fusing WWW and Link Server Technology: One Approach  
E. James Whitehead, Jr., Roy T. Fielding, and Kenneth M. Anderson 
In Proceedings of the  2nd Workshop on Open Hypermedia Systems , Hypertext'96,
Washington, DC, March, 1996, pages 81-86.
  
     
  Software Architecture
 
 
Motivated by the vision of creating a marketplace of software components
which could be quickly assembled into larger systems, Jim worked on the
  Chiron-2  software
architectural style research project. As part of a team working on this project,
Jim defined the aspects of an architecture which contribute to its ability
to be a components marketplace, worked on an early version of the notation
used to formally describe a Chiron-2 architecture, helped define the capabilities
of the Chiron-2 design environment, worked on the
  Klax example , and
provided in-depth critiques of important aspects of the Chiron-2 architectural
style.
  
   A Component
and Message-Based Architectural Style for GUI Software  
Richard N. Taylor, Nenad Medvidovic, Kenneth M. Anderson, E. James Whitehead,
Jr., Jason E. Robbins, Kari A. Nies, Peyman Oreizy, and Deborah L. Dubrow 
IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, Vol. 22, No. 6, June, 1996, pages
390-406.  
A significantly extended version of the paper which appeared at ICSE17.
  
   A Component-
and Message-Based Architectural Style for GUI Software  
Richard N. Taylor, Nenad Medvidovic, Kenneth M. Anderson, E. James Whitehead,
Jr., and Jason E. Robbins 
Proceedings of the Seventeenth International Conference on Software Engineering,
Seattle, WA, April, 1995, pages 295-304.
  
   Software
Architecture: Foundation of a Software Component Marketplace  
E. James Whitehead, Jr., Jason E. Robbins, Nenad Medvidovic, Richard N.
Taylor 
Proceedings of the First International Workshop on Architectures for Software
Systems, held in cooperation with ICSE-17, Seattle, WA, April, 1995, pages
276-282.
  
   Formal
Modeling of Software Architectures at Multiple Levels of Abstraction   
Nenad Medvidovic, Richard N. Taylor, E. James Whitehead, Jr. 
Proceedings of the   California
Software Symposium 1996 , Los Angeles, CA, April, 1996, pages 16-27.
  
     
  Software Development Environments
 
 
While Jim's work in hypermedia is directly applicable to software development
environments, Jim has also performed some research on software development
environments in general. In May, 1993, Jim participated in the Software
Environments Technical Research Review, sponsored by the Irvine Research
Unit in Software (IRUS), in which industry and academic representatives met
to perform a research review on the topic of software environments. Jim helped
write up a report on this meeting, and presented its results to the 4th Irvine
Software Symposium.
  
   Report on
The Software Environments Technical Research Review  
Jeffrey J. Blevins, E. James Whitehead, Jr., Harry E. Yessayan 
Proceedings of the 4th Irvine Software Symposium, April, 1994, pages 89-96.
  
   
     
     
     
 
</body> 