  
 
		 
			 

				 
					 
													 
								
								   							 
												 
                  							 
								  
							 
                                    
						 
					 
					 
												 Menu 
							    Home  
  Members  
  Application  
  Videos  
  Contact Us  
  						 

			    
			 
		 

		
				 
										 
							  
																  
															 
						 
						  
		 
		 

	
	 
		 
			
				
 
		 Welcome to the Dean’s Ambassadors Council 
 As UCI’s School of Social Science’s undergraduate leadership council, we work together to address school and local issues and concerns, to promote strong ties between students and faculty, and to develop a progressive social academic community. 
 The council works in tandem with the school’s administration and faculty. Our efforts focus on both in-reach and outreach. 
 Internally we create and host a number of annual programs. i.e., Transfer Student BBQ, Spooktacular, Department Dialogues, Academic Roundtables, Mardi Gras Social, Academic Feud, Dean’s Day Barbecue, and Hot Topics Debates. 
 Off-campus we support community-based philanthropic activities. i.e., Working Wardrobes Men’s Day of Self-Esteem, Santa Ana, Senior Center and Anteaters for Education Room Renovation. 
 Most notably, we created and implemented UCI’s first educational outreach in the Social Sciences– GlobalConnect@UCI . 
     
 Dean’s Ambassador Council is now accepting applications for 2016-2017. The Deadline is April 15, 2016,5 PM. APPLY NOW at  http://goo.gl/forms/OhBVCU2Vt4  
 If you are interested in our new program the Social Sciences Academic Mentorship (SSAM) program, please  click here . 
 We have available spots for mentors and mentees for the 2016-2017 academic school year. 
			 
	 
       			 
	 
	 

	
	

		 
	 
			 
				 
					 
						 Copyright © 2017     . Powered by   WordPress  . Theme: Spacious by   ThemeGrill  . 						    Home  
  Members  
  Application  
  Videos  
  Contact Us  
  		    			 
				 
			 
		  
	 
	   Sites@UCI  provided by the  Office of Information Technology ,  University of California, Irvine   </body> 