 michelle ang spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Michelle Ang spotlight 

 
 

  Best of Both Worlds    </strong>
 
 
  Michelle Ang flashes the  Rip'em Eaters sign. 
 
 
 In high school Michelle Ang had the opportunity to take AP Computer Science and found herself inspired.  
 “I like how computer science allows the freedom of choosing how I wanted to solve problems and still be able to arrive at the correct answer,” Ang said. 
 But when it came time to pick a college major, Ang, a fourth year student, didn’t know if she wanted to concentrate on computer software or hardware. 
 Luckily UC Irvine made the San Diego native's decision easy by offering the  Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) major .  
  A PERFECT FIT </strong> 
 “When I saw CSE on the application, I thought it was perfect because it incorporated both choices,” she said. “I do not regret choosing CSE at all because as it turns out it was exactly what I wanted to study.” 
 
 Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.
 
 Offered jointly by the Bren School of ICS, the first independent computer science school within the UC system, and The Henry Samueli School of Engineering, the Computer Science and Engineering major gives students access to multidisciplinary problems with a focus on total systems engineering. 
 It is designed to provide students with the fundamentals of computer science, both hardware and software, and the application of engineering concepts, techniques and methods to both computer systems engineering and software system design.  
 “My advice to students who are considering CSE is to just try it,” Ang said. “Take a couple of the required classes and get a feel for the major.  If you decide it’s not to your liking then the classes you have taken might be able to lead you into what you really are interested in.” 
 Ang credits the classes in the major for providing her an opportunity to integrate and gain hands-on-experience with a lot of CSE concepts.  
 She has also had the opportunity to expand her knowledge by doing research with professor Ian Harris on VOIP (Voice-over IP) technology and security.  
 “My responsibility was to install and learn about Asterisk, an open-source PBX software that networks VOIP phones,” Ang said. “We are now at the stage of figuring out what we want to test on our new Asterisk server.” 
  OUTSIDE THE LAB </strong> 
 Ang has also become actively involved in the  Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)  student group at UCI.  
 ACM is an event-based organization that helps expose students to the technology industry by holding information sessions and tours of local technology companies. 
 “I found ACM to be a very helpful organization. ACM has given me the chance to explore and meet different companies that are in the technology industry which improved my networking skills,” Ang said. “ACM also allowed me to meet more of my peers and I am really glad that I was able to meet such incredible people.”  
 As the ACM publicist, Ang is actively involved in publicizing the group’s events to the student body.  
 “I was really happy to see how many people came out to our Google Tech Talk in October and I hope that our other events are just as successful,” Ang said. 
 ACM also holds events that allow students the chance to interact with other students and professors.  
 Ang also does outreach for the  Women in Information and Computer Sciences (WICS)  group on campus, and is a member of the  Engineering Student Council (ESC)  service committee and  Phi Sigma Rho , a national science and engineering sorority.  
 “It took me a while to learn how to balance my time between school and fun but once you've learned to manage, everything just comes together,” Ang said.  
 Ang is especially excited about the re-opening of the Zot Zone which has been closed since the start of the student center expansion.  
 "The old Zot Zone had so many pool tables and my friends loved the Dance Dance Revolution machine they had,” Ang recalled. "I just hope that the new Zot Zone will be able to live up to our experience in the old one." 
  - Eric Kowalik    


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 