 Virtual Collaboration Portal 


    

     
     

       
         
           Virtual Collaboration Portal            

                     Home  
  Groups  
  Collaborators  
   

               
           
  
   
  Search this site:  
  
 

 
            

   Navigation 

      Bibliography    Authors  
  Keywords  
  
  Reading Lists  
  Web Links  
  Gallery  
  Recent posts  
  Acknowledgements  
  
 
 

   User login 

   
  
  Username:  *  
  
 
  Password:  *  
  
    Request new password  
   
 
 
         
      
          
                                                                                           
             

 
   

    ArchStudio 4 Instructional Video  

   
       Tue, 2009-09-15 11:02 — admin 
  
     

   
      http://vcp.ics.uci.edu/sites/default/files/video/Software_Architecture_Group/vid-archstudio-intro.swf  
   
  
  
    

 
    

    UCI-DIP  

   
  
     

   
     
  Description:  
 A collaboration between CalIT2 and the Center for Digital Industry Promotion (DIP) in Daegu City , Korea
 
     
 Our goal in this project is to develop improved concepts, techniques and tools that will support highly effective information sharing and collaborative work practices.  We are working to produce a viable, network-based infrastructure that enables game researchers, developers, educators and students to collaborate at a distance. 
   
   

    

 
   

    MICA StellaNova video tour  

   
       Wed, 2009-08-12 12:36 — admin 
  
          virtual-world-tour  
  
     

   
      http://vcp.ics.uci.edu/sites/default/files/g2_videos/StellaNovaTour.mp4  
   
  
  
    

 
    

    DVAS  

   
  
          Decentralized Virtual Activity Systems  
  
     

   
     
  Description:  
 Decentralized Virtual Activity Systems
 
 Our goal is to to empirically investigate and comparatively analyze the development and use of decentralized virtual activities systems (DVAS) within a sample of multiple diverse organizational settings using a research approach that foregournds a balanced socio-technical perspecitve. 
   

    

 
    

    ISR  

   
  
     

   
     
  Description:  
 Group for ISR researchers and administrators
 
 The mission of the Institute for Software Research (ISR) is to: 
Advance software and information technology  	  through research partnerships. 
ISR is dedicated to: 
   

     Read more  
   

 
    

    OSS  

   
  
     

   
     
  Description:  
 Open Source Software Research Group
 
 UCI research in open source software development focuses on empirically-based studies of the processes, practices, and communities that develop open source software and related artifacts. Ethnographic and virtual enthnographic research methods are employed in the field studies of open source software development in communities that include those centered on Internet infrastructure, X-Ray astronomy and deep space imaging, networked computer games, and academic software design research. 
   

    

 
    

    Software Architecture  

   
  
     

   
     
  Description:  
 Group page for software architecture research.
 
 UCI's software architecture research is directed at increasing the overall quality of software while reducing both the cost of development and time to market by focusing attention on high-level, principal design issues. We believe that architecture is not just a phase in the development life cycle, but a discipline pervading all phases of development.  Our research in software architecture differs from other approaches because it focuses on four key principles of software architecture: 
   

     Read more  
   

 
   

    Sample Blog Entry  

       Tue, 2009-03-10 10:43 — walt 
  
   
     This is a sample blog entry for Walt. 
   

   
     
         

              walt's blog  
  
       

 
 

 
   

    Institute for Software Research  

       Mon, 2009-06-01 12:51 — admin 
  
   
     
  
  http://www.isr.uci.edu/  
 
 

 
   

   
     
              Software Reseach  
  
         

       

 
 

 
   

    Tigris  

       Mon, 2009-06-01 12:50 — admin 
  
   
     
  
  http://www.tigris.org/  
 
 

 
   

   
     
              Open Source  
  
         

       

 
    « first  
  ‹ previous  
  1  
 2 
  3  
  next ›  
  last »  
             
                         
           

      
      
   


  </body> 