 press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Press releases  


     
 Press release 

 
 





  August 16,  2007</strong>  UC Irvine program that melds life sciences and computers awarded $5.6 million grant</strong>   Interdisciplinary training ground is one of 18 nationwide   The UC Irvine Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics (IGB) has been awarded $5.6 million over five years from the National Institutes of Health to continue training students to apply advanced computer and information technologies in the biological and medical sciences.  The funding will be used to expand the interdisciplinary Biomedical Informatics Training (BIT) program, an initiative led by IGB Director and Chancellor’s Professor Pierre Baldi and Professor G. Wesley Hatfield to train graduate students and postdoctoral fellows in the UCI Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), The Henry Samueli School of Engineering, and the schools of physical sciences, biological sciences, and medicine.  One of only 18 such programs in the country, the BIT program in 2002 received from NIH the largest training grant of its kind.  “Biomedical informatics is a two-way synergy that brings together life and computational sciences,” Baldi said. “We can use computers to better understand living systems and conversely draw inspiration from living systems to design better machines for processing information.”  The process and analysis of genomic data increasingly requires advances in storing, networking, analyzing, modeling, and visualizing biological and medical information. The BIT program provides specialized training in both computational and life sciences, and it offers in-depth training that develops core skills in molecular biology and biochemistry, computer modeling of biological systems, statistics, programming, and database development. Every student is required to work with two faculty mentors – each from different disciplines – and to team with another student initially trained in another field.     “Working with advisers and peers from different disciplines gives students a much more comprehensive education in biomedical informatics,” Hatfield said.  Graduates of the BIT program are now working for biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies such as Primarion and Sangamo Pharmaceuticals; in industry for businesses such as Focus Diagnostics and CODA Genomics; and in academic positions at institutions such as Simmons Comprehensive Cancer Center at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, South Illinois University Carbondale, and UC Irvine. Three honorary program members have gone on to the University of Missouri, University College Dublin, Ireland, and University of Provence/Aix-Marseille in France.  “This is a visionary program now being emulated by other universities,” states an Academic Program Review for the ICS school in 2005. “There is no formal national rating and may not be for some time. Yet, despite the rapid growth in the subfield and the several dozen programs that have been established nationally, the UCI effort in this case is in [the] top 10 now, and should be able to stay there.”  The field of computational biology is booming at UC Irvine. Earlier this month, its Center for Complex Biological Systems received a $14.5 million grant from the NIH to enhance the study of systems biology, or why the human body and other organisms work the way they do. Systems biology also is a research focus of the IGB, which has attracted more than $25 million in research funding since it was established in 2000.   
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 