 Anton Burtsev's Homepage<body>
	    
			  
	   
		 
			 Home 
			  
	 
	   

		 
		  I've spent most of my life in Kyiv, Ukraine. I speak Russian, 
		     Ukrainian, English, and a bit German. I 
		     like to spend my time with  Anna , 
		      Sophia , and 
		      Lev . 
		     Anna never updates her web page, but she finished her PhD at the University of Utah. After being 
                     a postdoctoral fellow for several years, she is now a medical resident at the University of California Irvine. 
                     Our kids Sophia and Lev often work as a team (we're lucky) and in general know how to enjoy life. 
	         
		
		 
		  I moved to Utah from Kiev, Ukraine, where I was a
		     graduate student at the Institute for Applied System
		     Analysis at the  National
		     Technical University of Ukraine "Kyiv Polytehnic Institute"  (Complete education
		      history ). In Ukraine I worked with 
		      Leonid Ryzhyk . We were 
		     full of naive but interesting ideas. We spent several years working on the  E1 distributed operating system  project. 
		 
		

                 
		   Photos  
		 Some photos of me, my friends and other day-to-day fun are  here .
		 
		


	         
		   Traveling  
		 Anna and I love to travel more than we can.
		 
		


		 
		   Skiing  
		 Skiing is likely the reason to live in Utah.
			Unfortunately, we don't ski much lately. But we take
			Sophia and Lev to Alta almost every weekend. They both are making 
			progress.
	
		 
		

		 
		   Taekwondo  
		 The University of Utah's Taekwondo club used to be a surprisingly rare 
			example of a devoted teaching (my wife and I had to quit shortly
			after our daughter was born).    
	
		 
		   Skating  
		 	
			We put Sopia in a skating class, so I learnt how
			to skate a little bit too.	
		 
		

				
		 
		   Music    My current focus is the music of John Zorn and everyone who plays with him. 
			Before that it was Esbjorn Svensson and Avishai Cohen. I've spent many year listening to
			the mainstream jazz music: Davis, Evans, Jarrett, Coltrane.  
		
		 
		
	
		 	
		   Tennis    Anna and I used to play a lot. We don't
			have time any more.

                         You can start playing tennis by watching these  videos .
			You can find more about strings from the  stringforum.net .
			Luxilon Big Banger and Tecnifibre X-One Biphase is a
			reasonable combination to try.  		
		 
		



	 			
	    
			  
	   
		 Updated: August, 2016 
	 
	  </body> 