 Southern California SPIN - New Sponsor Solicitation<body>

    Call for Southern California SPIN Sponsor/Host   
 
 
 
 28 September 1999 
  
 Dear Potential Sponsor: 
  
 The Southern California SPIN is currently in search of a
new sponsor after 7.5 years of association with the Irvine Research Unit in
Software (IRUS) at UCI.  Recent changes at UCI have made it necessary to
end the relationship between SPIN and IRUS.   
  
 The SPIN Steering Committee Search Subcommittee would
like you to consider entering a bid to become our new sponsor.  We have
prepared a list of points for you to cover in your bid presentation, along
with costs/hour estimates (reflecting recent SPIN activity).  Please see
APPENDICES B and C.  The Search Subcommittee feels that following these
outlines will provide both the potential sponsor and SPIN the opportunity
to evaluate any potential long-term relationship.  
  
 The SPIN Steering Committee Search Subcommittee has set
the following steps for our sponsor search: 

  Appoint a search subcommittee to drive the search
selection 
 Furnish each potential sponsor with a list of points
to cover in their presentation 
 Furnish each potential sponsor with cost/hour
estimates on tasks performed by current sponsor 
 Schedule a tour by the Search Subcommittee of the
proposed sponsor facility  
 Potential sponsors participate in presentations and
interviews with SPIN Steering Committee 
 SPIN Steering Committee selects the new sponsor  
 Announcement of the new sponsor of the Southern
California SPIN at the December 3, 1999 meeting.    
 Sponsor presentations and interviews will be conducted
by the SPIN Steering Committee on Friday, 29 October 1999, after the usual
morning SPIN meeting.  Voting for the new SPIN sponsor will be conducted in
early November with the new sponsor being announced at the December
3 rd  SPIN meeting.  A detailed schedule of events, plus contact
information for scheduling your presentation and facility tour, can be
found in APPENDIX A. 
  
 Thank you very much for your interest and participation. 
  
 Sincerely yours, 
  
 George W. O'Mary 
SPIN Steering Committee Leader 
  
  APPENDIX A 

   Contact Information for Scheduling Facility Visits and October
29 th  Presentations: 


  SPIN Steering Committee Leader   
George W. O'Mary 
The Boeing Company 
HO21-F225 
5301 Bolsa Avenue 
Huntington Beach, CA 92647 
(714) 896-3311 Extension 68839 
george.w.o’mary@boeing.com     Schedule Of Events:  
    

    28 September 1999 — Distribution of
potential sponsor invitations 
     11-25 October 1999 — Field trips by the
SPIN Subcommittee Search Team visiting each potential sponsor’s
proposed facilities 
     22 October 1999 — Last day for receipt
of written responses to points in APPENDIX B 
     29 October 1999 — Potential
sponsors’ presentations to the SPIN Steering Committee — 30 minutes including time for Q&amp;A      1-12 Novembe
r 1999 — Voting by SPIN Steering Committee on new SPIN
sponsor 
     3 December 1999 — Announcement of new
SPIN Sponsor at the December SPIN meeting    

   APPENDIX B 
 
   Points to Consider/Cover in Your Presentation : 

  Why are you interested in sponsoring the SPIN? 
  

  Do you propose any change in the SPIN mission, scope, charter, or
process? 

  
  What past involvement have you had with the SPIN?  SPIN member
companies?  SPIN audience? 
  

  What facilities can you commit for the SPIN meetings? 
  

  Do you propose any change in the nominal SPIN meeting schedule (9
am-12 noon, last Friday of every month)?  
  

  What arrangements/facilities are available for the Steering Group
meeting (a working luncheon after the SPIN meeting)? 
  

  Can you provide refreshments at the SPIN meeting? 
  

  How do you propose to fund the SPIN costs?  Please address charges
to both member companies, their attendees, and walk-ins.  Consider the
costs of refreshments, the Steering Group luncheon, A/V equipment rental,
and facility usage. 
  

  What administrative support will you provide?  Please address
maintaining attendance records and the SPIN website, distributing meeting
announcements (post and email), answering phone inquiries, reproducing
speaker materials for attendees, and supplying staff to greet and register
attendees. 
  

  What is your experience in conducting events comparable to the SPIN? 
  

  Are there any restrictions or requirements for the conduct of SPIN
meetings, due to your own organizational constraints (e.g., parking
cost/control, access to meeting rooms, approval of speakers by
organizational management)? 
  
   APPENDIX C 

  
 
  Estimate of Costs/Hours for Tasks Performed by Current Sponsor 
 

   GENERAL:  
    1)	Answering/Handling SPIN e-mail and phone calls  Sponsor Contact Person:  3 hours/mo.  

 2)	Maintain/Update database &amp; e-mail list  Sponsor Contact Person:   1 hour/mo. 
Sponsor Admin Staff: .5 hours/mo.  

 3)	SPIN Steering Committee duties  
- edit minutes, topic list  Sponsor Contact Person:  1 hour/mo.   - interface with Leader, Committee Members, potential speakers (e.g.
Action Items, Agenda)  Sponsor Contact Person:  1 hour/mo.  

 4)	Coordinate between Sponsor Contact Person and Sponsor Admin Staff:
1 hour/mo. 
 	 
  Total:  7.5 hours per month  
    PROCEDURAL:      1)	Reserve SPIN meeting room &amp; lunch meeting room (reserve 6
months in advance)  Sponsor Admin Staff: 1 hour/mo . 

 2)	Get Flyer Info (nag coordinators, nag speakers) (2.5 - 3 months in
advance)  Sponsor Contact Person: 1 hour/mo.  

 3)	Create Flyer (2 months in advance)  Sponsor Admin Group: 4 hours/mo.  

 	- HTML &amp; put on web (2 months in advance)  Sponsor Contact Person: .5 hour/mo.  

 	- Send to email list (3 weeks in advance)  Sponsor Contact Person: .5 hour/mo.  

 4)	Copy Flyer (photocopy, fold)  Sponsor Admin staff: .5 hours/mo  

 5)	Stuff  and label envelopes (mail 3-4 weeks in advance) 
Edit/Print letters to speakers  Sponsor Admin staff &amp; Sponsor Contact Person: 1 hour/mo.  

 6)	Assemble and mail package for speakers/email letter (send 3 weeks
in advance)  Sponsor Admin Staff: .5 hours/mo.  

 7)	Order Food (SPIN &amp; lunch) (order 1 week in advance; confirm
headcount 2 days in advance)  Sponsor Admin Staff: 1 hour/mo.  

 8)	Prepare Steering Committee Invitation e-mail, including agenda,
and collect RSVPs  
(e-mail 1 week in advance)  Sponsor Contact Person: 1 hour/mo.  

 9)	Copy miscellaneous handouts (e.g. Job Opportunities, meeting
announcements)  Sponsor Admin Staff: .5 hours/mo.  

 10)	Copy Speaker handouts (if received 1 week in advance)  Sponsor Admin Staff: 1 hour/mo.  
   
 11)	Prepare Meeting Box (see SPIN Meeting Preparation Checklist) (2-3
days in advance) 
- sign in sheets 
— receipts 
- cash box/miscellaneous admin items (paper clips, tape, pens, etc.) 
- info table handouts 
— certificates 
— surveys 
- Does NOT include time for copying speaker handouts  Sponsor Admin Staff: 3 hours  

 12)	Prepare SPIN Steering Committee meeting materials  Sponsor Admin Staff: 1 hour 
Sponsor Contact Person: .5 hours  

 13)	Meeting setup/Meeting/Steering Committee Meeting/Meeting clean up  Sponsor Admin Staff: 5 hours 
Other admin staff: 4 hours  
 	Sponsor Contact Person:: 6.5 hours 

 14)	Meeting Post-mortem  
- sort meeting materials 
- update database, producing attendance list  Sponsor Admin Staff: 2 hours  

 	- process revenue from meeting 
 	  Sponsor Contact Person: .5 hours  

 	- update email list 
 	  Sponsor Contact Person:   1 hour  
    Total: 38 hours per month 

    SPECIAL:     
2-3 times per year
 
  1)	Edit Charter &amp; other documents 
 2)	Handle nomination/election process 
  	 Sponsor Contact Person:   10 hours/mo .  
    Total:  10 hours per month — (2-3times per year) 


    Total Cost/Revenue Per Meeting 
(AVG July 1998 — June 1999) :   
     $975/per SPIN meeting + $200 four times a year for Executive Committee
meeting 

  Attendance:  High — 120, Low — 42, Avg — 74, Avg 2 -
58, Avg No. Orgs: 33 
 Revenue:  High - $1080, Low - $120, Avg - $420, Avg 2 - $300 
 Cost:  $775 (avg for SPIN meeting) + $200 4 times a year for Executive Committee breakfast
meetings 

    includes Auditorium, Catering, Flyers, Postage, Speaker Handouts,
Microphones, Handouts 
 does not include AV, Overhead/Admin, Personnel 
  Steering Committee Meeting Cost:  approx. $200 

  includes room at University Club and lunch 
 does not include Overhead/Admin, Personnel  
  
End of document.

 </body> 