 Entrepreneurship « Opportunities « Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences « University of California Irvine<body>


      ?&gt;
   
   
     

         
        
             

                   Degrees  
                      Opportunities  
                      Careers  
                  
        
             
                  
                  
             
        
             

                   Student Life  
                      Admissions  
                      Contact  
                  
        
         

         
        
             

                 Opportunities 
 A Bren School education provides you with more than just course work             
             

             

                   Applied Learning  
	  Honors  
	  Research  
	  Entrepreneurship  
  
                    
             
      Entrepreneurship 
    	        
    	        
    	         
                  Adball.com – hITEC competition winners 
    	         

	             
	            Bren School students are not just students. They want to shape their careers and society. Their entrepreneurial spirit shows up in many ways. Every year students form teams to compete in hITEC, our product development competition that involves industrial mentors and over $9,000 in prizes. The past two years' winning product ideas have gone on to form actual startups:
	            
	             

	              Clarity Labs leverages TV audiences' consumer behavior through a tag placement application that allows viewers to click on their favorite products in any given TV show for convenient online shopping. 
	               Olepta  revolutionizes relationship management for medical practitioners by modernizing the start-to-finish practice workflow. Its software opens new channels between the medical provider, the patient, insurance provider, family members, and all other parties involved in a patient's medical history.   
	               
	              
	               
	            The top three product development teams in hITEC automatically qualify for The Paul Merage School of Business's annual Stradling Yocca Carlson &amp; Rauth Business Plan Competition with cash awards totaling $30,000.
	             
    	        
    	         
    	        As exemplified by Clarity Labs and Olepta, every year some of 
    	        our of students launch new start-up companies to apply their 
    	        innovative spirit to networking, gaming, medical information 
    	        systems, internet technology, or some other area. A student who is 
    	        interested in participating in one of these product development 
    	        competitions may enroll in the Entrepreneurship course taught by Bren 
    	        Professor  Ramesh Jain , who has founded three 
    	        highly successful companies himself. 
    	         

                 
                     Share 
                     | 
                      
                      
                      
                      
                 
                 

              

         
        
         
        
             
            
                 Language: </strong>
                 English  |
                 Chinese (Traditional)  |
                 Korean  |
                 Vietnamese             
             
        
             
            
                 University of California, Irvine - Irvine, CA 92697 : 949-824-5011 

                 
                     Comments &amp; Questions  |
                     Privacy &amp; Legal Notice  |
                     Copyright Inquiries  |
                    © 2017 UC Regents
                 

             
            
             
            
                 Site By Crisp 

             
        
         

     
    
</body> 