 FAQ | MHCID ICS 

	 
		 
			 
					    
					 



					

					



					 
						
      Search for: 
     
    					 


				 
			 
		 





			 Menu 
				 Skip to content 
				    Program 
  
	  About the Program  
	  Curriculum  
	  Capstone Projects  
 
  
  People 
  
	  MHCID Faculty and Staff  
	  Industry Advisory Board  
	  Current Students  
	  Mentors  
 
  
  Admissions 
  
	  Information Sessions  
	  Admissions Overview  
	  Costs and Financial Aid  
 
  
  FAQ  
  
				
				 
								  
                

			 
	 


	 

		 
	 
		   FAQ   	 

	 
		 

							
	 FAQ 
		 
			 Here are some of the most frequently asked questions we get. Check them out and feel free to ask more by contacting student affairs at mhcid@ics.uci.edu 
  When is the application deadline?</strong> 
Applications will be due by the end of March 2017. They are open now, however, so you can get a headstart if you want. Do not wait until the last minute to do things like pay the application fee and get your letters of recommendation sent. You would be surprised at how backed up those systems can get around deadlines. 
  Do I have to take the GRE?</strong> 
We find that a portfolio of your work is a better indicator of your promise in the program than a GRE score. So, for those of you who have been working, please put together a portfolio. More information on that can be found  here.  
  How are admissions and fellowships handled?</strong> 
The  executive committee  for the program reviews every applicant in detail both for general admissions to the program and for individual fellowships. We will attempt to notify fellowship winners at the same time as admissions, but there can sometimes be a delay in this process. 
  Is this a STEM degree?</strong> 
Most of the people who are asking this question are actually asking two related questions. (1)  As this is a low-residency program that only requires you be on campus for three intense visits, we do not have the ability to issue I-20s at this time. International students should consult with an immigration attorney if you want to live in the US while taking this program.</strong> (2) The program is intense over the entire year. So, there is not dedicated time to take off for internships. Most of our students do work while in the program, but these are their regular positions, not internships. 
  Is this program accredited? </strong>Like all Master’s degrees at the University of California, the MHCID program is accredited by the WSCUC accrediting agency. Additionally, formal oversight of the program rests with the University of California Academic Senate. 
  Do you provide career placement support?</strong> 
Yes! We do this currently by matching students with  mentors  in the industry as well as holding a hiring fair during the March in person intensive. We are also in the process of hiring an executive director who will work with student affairs, our industry advisory board, and the program faculty to support career placement. 
  I am working. Will there be enough time for me to complete this program?</strong> 
Yes! We expect that people are working. However, it will be  intense.  You should think about this program as picking up another part-time job on the side and anticipate spending around 20 hours a week on the program during each quarter. That’s in addition to the residency portions of the classes. 
  What kinds of letters of recommendation should I get? </strong>Excellent ones! The goal here is to get people who know you well and can speak to your strengths. This might be someone you work with or for, a client for whom you have completed a project, or a former professor. They should know you well though and be able to speak to your ability to complete a professional Master’s program successfully. 
  Where should I send my transcripts?</strong> 
ICS Graduate Office 
Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences 
352 Information &amp; Computer Science Bldg. 
University of California, Irvine 
Irvine, CA 92697-3430 
					 
		 
	 

	 
	 
			
			 


				 
						   
				 

				 
						   
				 


				 
					
					    Feedback  
  Privacy Policy  
  					© 2017 UC Regents
				 

				 

					   
					   


				 

			 

		 

	 

</body> 