 Sam Malek - Home Page<body>


   


  
        Home     
         Curriculum Vitae      
         Publications      
         Research Lab      
         Teaching 
     
 
      
               
                         
                          Sam Malek      Associate Professor   
                         
                         
                         
                          
                      
                     
                            
                             University of California, Irvine   School of Information and Computer Sciences    Department of Informatics    Institute for Software Research    Software Engineering and Analysis Laboratory    
                         
                         Office:  DBH 5226   Mail:  5226 Donald Bren Hall  
                                  University of California, Irvine  
                                  CA 92697-3440   Phone:  +1-949-824-0639   Fax:  +1-949-824-4056
                          Email:  last name at uci dot edu
                         
                     
                    
       
         
        Sam Malek is an Associate Professor in the   Informatics Department  within the  School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . He is also a member of the   Institute for Software Research  and the director of  Software Engineering and Analysis Laboratory .  
        Malek's general research interests are in the field of software engineering, and to date his focus has spanned the areas of software architecture, autonomic computing, mobile computing, and software analysis and testing. The underlying theme of his research has been to devise techniques and tools that aid with the construction, analysis, and maintenance of large-scale software systems. 
        Malek received his Ph.D. and M.S. degrees in Computer Science from the   University of Southern California   and his B.S. degree in Information and Computer Science from the  University of California, Irvine . He has received numerous awards for his research contributions, including the National Science Foundation CAREER award (2013), GMU Emerging Researcher/Scholar/Creator award (2013), and GMU Computer Science Department Outstanding Faculty Research Award (2011). 
        Malek is on the editorial board of   IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering   and the   Springer Journal of Computing  . He provides  software expert witness  consulting through Quandary Peak Research. 
        Malek is a member of the Association for Computing Machinery ( ACM ), ACM Special Interest Group on Software Engineering ( SIGSOFT ), and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE ).
         
       
               
       
</body> 