 Visual Perception 

 

  CS 213: Visual Perception    

 Instructor: Aditi  Majumder  (Office: DBH 4056)  
Timings: MW 11:00am-12:20pm  

 Quarter: Spring 2013 

  Course Description    

 This course will serve as an
introduction to the process of visual perception. The goal of this course is to
provide the student with a understanding of what goes on behind of scenes of
human visual perception, and how this understanding can help to advance the
technologies of computer vision, computer graphics, multimedia and human
computer interaction (HCI). 
This course will offer both the physiological and the psychophysical approach
to understand human vision and will relate the two fields together to create a
consistent and complete understanding of the process of visual perception. For
the physiological approach, the course will introduce the areas of lower level
visual processing in the receptors of the eye and the lateral geniculate
nucleus and higher level visual processing in different areas of the brain. In
the psychophysical approach, the course will introduce the different
psychophysical models of human vision, like the models of perceptual
organization, perceptual segregation, and construction. Concepts of color,
depth, movement and their visual perception will be introduced. To relate the
materials presented in the context of different areas of computer science,
examples of the quantification and use of these physiological and
psychophysical models in computer vision, computer graphics, multimedia and HCI
will be referenced.  

  Tentative Course
Outline     

  Introduction  
  Optical Info  
  Visual System  
   Percieving 
     Objects, Color, Depth and Movements  
  Spatial Vision  
  Perception and Action  
  Applications  
   Digital Color and
      Visualization Systems  
   Image and Video
      Compression  
   Gamut Matching  
   Camera Calibration  
   Depth Reconstruction  
      Class Schedule     

  Grading Policy    

  Special Topic for
the Class and Related Resources    

   ·        
    Light Field    

   ·        
    Light Field Cameras    

   ·        
    Light Field Displays     

   o         Student Projects     

  Course Materials (Borrowed
from E. Bruce Goldstein’s Sensation and Perception, Palmer’s Vision
Science and  DeValois  and  DeValois’s 
Spatial Vision)    

    Logistics   
   Introduction   Notes  and Presentation (Classes:  Jan  9   ). 
   Optical Information   Notes  and Presentation (Classes:  Jan  9      ). 
   Visual System   Notes  and Presentation (Classes:  Jan  11   ,  Jan 18 ). 
   Perceiving Objects   Notes  and Presentation (Classes:  Jan  23   ). 
   Perceiving Color   Notes  and Presentation (Classes:  Jan 30, Feb1  ,  Feb 1 ) 
   Spatial Vision   Notes  and Presentation (Classes:  Feb 8  ) 
   Perceiving Depth and Size   Notes  and Presentation (Classes:  Feb  10   ). 
   Perceiving Movement   (Classes:  Feb 10     )  
   Perceiving Scenes   Notes  and Presentation (Classes:  Feb 10  ) 
   Perceiving Functions and
     Categories   Notes  and Presentation (Classes:  Feb 13  ) 
   Visual Attention   Notes  and Presentation (Classes:  Feb 15  )   
   Visual Memory   Notes  and Presentation (Classes:  Feb 15(STM)  ,  Feb 15(LTM) ) 
        

  References    

  Sensation and Perception, E.
     Bruce Goldstein 
  Vision Science: Photons and
     Phenomenology, Stephen E. Palmer 
  Theories of Visual
     Perception, Ian E. Gordon 
  Color Appearance Models, Mark
     D. Fairchild 
   Spatial Vision, Russell L.  DeValois , Karen K.  DeValois     
      

     

       

 

</body> 