 Department of Computer Science - Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences – Department of Computer Science - Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences     

       

           

           

           

       

               Explore  
    Chair’s Welcome   
	   Seminar Series   
	   Distinguished Lecture Series   
	   Contact Us   
  
   Faculty   
   Research  
    Research Areas   
	   Research Centers   
  
   Graduate Degrees  
    Computer Science Programs   
	   Current Graduate Students   
  
   Undergraduate Degrees   
     
		 
			 
				  

											 
							  
							 
																  Amiri Sani received $1 million from NSF in 2016  
								 The Computer Science professor was awarded a combined $1 million in NSF grants for two projects related to his computer systems research. 
							 
						 
					
						 
												   
											 

					 
									 

											 
							  
							 
																  Professor Michael Carey named IEEE Fellow  
								 The honor recognizes Carey for his contributions to design and engineering of high-performance and concurrent database systems. 
							 
						 
					
						 
												   
											 

					 
									 

											 
							  
							 
																  ICS alumnus named to OC Register’s 100 Most Influential list  
								 Xiaoxiang Lu ’02 was recognized for the social contribution of his WeIrvine website. 
							 
						 
					
						 
												   
											 

					 
									 

											 
							  
							 
																  3 ICS researchers named AAAS fellows  
								 Ramesh Jain, Hal Stern and Gene Tsudik are recognized by the American Association for the Advancement of Science for contributions to their fields. 
							 
						 
					
						 
												   
											 

					 
									 

											 
							  
							 
																  UCI team awarded $2.9 million for graduate training in data science, STEM  
								 Professor Padhraic Smyth will lead UCI’s five-year project, which is part of the National Science Foundation Research Traineeship program. 
							 
						 
					
						 
												   
											 

					 
								  
		 

     
 Welcome 
 The  Department of Computer Science</strong> is internationally recognized as a unique group of faculty, visiting researchers, students and educational programs, which provide a world-class research environment that goes well beyond the core areas of computer science. Our curricula, faculty and research focus on an array of topics, including computer architecture, system software, networking and distributed computing, data and information systems, artificial intelligence, and computer graphics, while also exploring interdisciplinary topics such as biomedical informatics, data mining, security and privacy, and ubiquitous computing.
  
 
 Job Opportunities 
 For a listing of current academic positions open in the Computer Science Department, visit the  Academic Recruitment website . 
  Recruitment Alert: ICS is looking for qualified midcareer professors, such as advanced assistant professors or tenured associate to early full professors, as part of our Midcareer Professor Hiring Initiative.  Apply Online! 
  The CS department is inviting applications for a “ Professor of Teaching in Computer Science ” faculty position with security of employment. This position parallels the tenure track faculty research series starting in academic year 2017-2018.
   
 
 CS Seminar Series 
  Ruslan Salakhutdinov</strong> – Carnegie Mellon University  “Learning Deep Unsupervised and Multimodal Models”</strong> 
Friday, January 27, 2017 
11:00am – 12:00pm 
DBH 6011  more information » 
  
 
   
 Distinguished Lecture Series 
 Join us in Donald Bren Hall 6011 for this free lecture series, which is sponsored by the Department of Computer Science.  more information » 
  
  		 Latest news 
		  
				 Tsudik’s biometrics security research paper featured in February issue of CACM 
							 January 30, 2017 
						 
					 
				 OC Register: ICS alumnus, professional poker player Jason Les competing against a bot for $200K 
							 January 13, 2017 
						 
					 
				 Master of Computer Science Program Ranks 36th nationally by TFE Times 
							 January 12, 2017 
						 
					 
				 Cardiovascular Business: “NIH provides researchers $8.6 million to map heart’s anatomy” (Fowlkes mentioned) 
							 January 5, 2017 
						 
					 
				 Two ICS Ph.D. students receive 2017 UCI Public Impact Fellowships 
							 December 16, 2016 
						 
				   			  News Archive  
		    			 

				 
						   
				 

				 
					  © 2017 UC Regents 
					     Feedback  
					     Privacy Policy  
					  

			 
	  </body> 