 US 197B Course Reference<body>
 ylouWinter 2017 
—  UTeach Program   —   Division of Undergraduate Education  —  UC Irvine  
  UTeach Seminar (University Studies 197B) 
  UTeach: Theory and Practice  
 Course Reference 

 
   Instructors:   
 David G. Kay ,
  5056 Donald Bren Hall
(  kay@uci.edu  ); 
 Gail K. Hart ,
229 Humanities Instructional Building (  gkhart@uci.edu  ); 
Katey Hobkrik
(  khobkirk@uci.edu  ) 
  Quick links:  
 Assignments  

 Piazza Q&amp;A 
 Resources  
  Course goals and learning outcomes:   This course is exclusively for participants in the 2016–17 UTeach program. [Applications for the 2017–18 program will be available in Spring 2017 at the  UTeach Program  site.] We will cover course organization, presentation techniques and skills, classroom management, motivating students, giving and receiving feedback, and other aspects of college teaching. 
 
   Meeting place and times:   Class meets
Wednesdays from 4:00 to 6:50 in Donald Bren Hall 1422. 
 
 Office hours:   We're happy to hear from UTeachers any time. Drop by, send a message, arrange a specific time if you like. You can also get pretty rapid feedback from your colleagues and instructors  by posting on  Piazza.com . 
  We will never intentionally ignore a message, so if you don't receive a response, write again; sometimes overactive spam filters snag a legitmate message.   
 
We will also send course announcements by Email
to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email regularly.
 Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
has for you (your UCInet ID).  If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
UCInet account (which is a good idea, since if your UCInet account's mailbox fills up, you stop receiving mail), redirect your mail at   http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html   . 
 
   Course structure: 
This course is graded P/NP. Passing requires professional performance in (a) attendance and participation [Most of your learning will come from class discussions, presentations, activities, and feedback. We expect you to attend and participate actively in every class meeting except for schedule conflicts we know about and real emergencies], (b) scheduled presentations [Deliver each of your three presentations—5-minute, 10-minute, and 30-minute—well prepared on the scheduled date], and (c) written materials [Submit your final syllabus and detailed course plan according to the course schedule. Both documents must address previous comments of reviewers and demonstrate your readiness to teach your course.]. 
  Special needs:  Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation due to a disability should contact the UCI Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to explore the possible range of accommodations. We encourage all students having difficulty, whether or not due to a disability, to consult privately with the instructor at any time. 
 
 Approximate course schedule: </strong> 
        Week   
       Date   
       Topics    
      1.  
     11 January 
     Introductions • Five-minute presentations 
      2.  
     18 January 
     Learning styles • Active learning • Learning outcomes • Course descriptions  Bring one paper copy of your course plan and syllabus, modified to reflect the reviewers' comments.   Sign up for your 10-minute presentations.  
      3.  
     25 January 
     Syllabi and workloads • Attendance policies  Photos for UTeach 2017 web page.  
      4.  
     1 February 
     Ten-minute presentations (#1–#6) 
      5.  
     8 February 
     Ten-minute presentations (#7–#11)  Sign up for thirty-minute presentations; you may invite your faculty mentor to come observe your presentation, so you should clear the time with your mentor before you reserve it.  
      6.  
     15 February 
     Peer editing of syllabi • Promoting discussion • Classroom management • Classroom technologies • Other issues  Bring two paper copies of your syllabus.  
      7.  
     22 February 
     Thirty-minute presentations (#1–#4)  Final revisions of syllabus and course plan due, Friday 5:00 on EEE dropbox.  
      8.  
     1 March 
     Thirty-minute presentations (#5–#8) 
      9.  
     8 March 
     Thirty-minute presentations (#9–#11) 
      10.  
     15 March 
     Panel of Past UTeachers • Remaining issues • Wrap-up  Syllabus and course plan with final comments addressed, due Friday 5:00 on EEE dropbox.  
         F.  
     Weds. 22 March, 4-6 
     TBA (We won't have an exam, but we'll reserve this time in case we need it for extra presentations or something) 
      </body> 