 Geometry in Action: Typography<body>

 
 
  
 
  
  Typography 

Most fonts are represented these days digitally, as collections of
spline curves, together with extra information representing kerning
(intercharacter spacing) and "hints" for low-resolution rasterization.
Although there does not seem to be a direct connection with the
computational geometry community, there are a number of problems that
could be addressed here: how to automatically choose spline curves to
match a given drawing, how to kern and hint automatically or
semi-automatically instead of by eye, and how to use geometric font
characteristics to perform intelligent font substitution.  There
are also interesting
computational issues connected with text layout (e.g. Knuth's line
breaking algorithm in TeX) but these seem less geometrical.
     The comp.fonts
Home Page 
 
    Font
Wizard Algorithm .  Howard Trickey of Bell Labs describes his
software for producing three-dimensional renderings of letterforms,
including a straight skeleton like algorithm for achieving a beveled
effect.
 
    A formal approach to lettershape description for type design .
P. Ghosh and C. Bigelow describe character shapes in terms of their
medial axes.
 
    John Hobby's paper "Polygonal approximations that minimize the number of
inflections"  (from SODA 1993) describes a form of outline
simplification with applications including optical character
recognition, and includes references to similar work.
Hobby has also worked on other typographic algorithms including
 automatic
generation of low-resolution hinting information from font outlines .
 
    The Panose
typeface-matching system  condenses various geometric characteristics
of characters into a short numerical vector in order to measure the
similarity between different fonts.
 
    US
Patent 5115479  covers the compression of bitmap data by using spline
curves to represent the image outlines.  Isn't that what standard font
formats already did?
 
    Usenet messages by Chuck Bigelow and others 
discussing algorithms for automatic kerning.
 
    Using the
Voronoi Tessellation for Grouping Words and Multi-part Symbols in
Documents , M. Burge and G. Monagan.
 
     
Part of
 Geometry in Action ,
a collection of applications of computational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 