 Data Structures<body>
 CS 261, Spring 2013: Data Structures 

 This course meets Tuesdays and Thursdays, 2:00 - 3:20 in Bren
1500. Coursework will consist of weekly homeworks, turned in at the
start of lecture and returned at the reader's office hours,
one midterm, and a comprehensive final exam. Homeworks will usually be
assigned Thursdays and due on the following Thursday. Grading will be
based 20% on homework, 35% for the midterm, and 45% for the final.

  Instructor office hours are Tuesdays and Wednesdays from 4:00 to
5:00, in DBH 4214. The reader for the course is Wei Ping; Wei's office
hours are Fridays from 3:30 to 4:30, in DBH 4069. 

 There is no
required textbook; however, much of the course material will be drawn
from the Wikipedia articles collected together in
the Wikipedia "book"
  Fundamental Data Structures  .
Additionally, suggested internet readings for the
topics covered here will be linked from the schedule of topics. 

 This course may be used as part of the comprehensive exam in the
  computer science masters program. To pass the comprehensive exam,
  students must score at least 66% of the possible points on the final
  examination for the course. Students who wish to take the
  comprehensive exam but are not enrolled in the
  course should contact me by email before the end of week 8 of the
  quarter to reserve a place in the exam. 

 Tentative schedule of topics 
  Week 1. Introduction: Algorithms + Data
Structures.  The
potential method of amortized analysis .  Dynamic arrays .  Homework 1 , due Tuesday, April 16 —
 Solutions . 
 Week 2. No class. 
 Week 3: The  dictionary problem  and  hash tables .  Hash chaining ,  linear probing , and  cuckoo hashing . 
Hash functions:  cryptographic hash functions ,  k-independent hashing , and  tabulation hashing .   Homework 2 , due Thursday, April 25 —
 Solutions . 
 Week 4:  Bloom
filters ,  invertible Bloom
filters ,  MinHash ,
 streaming
data structures , and  frequent item detection .  Homework 3 , due Thursday, May 2 —
 Solutions . 
 Week 5:  Priority
queues .  Binary
heaps  and  k-ary
heaps .  Fibonacci
heaps .  Homework 4 , due Thursday, May 9 —
 Solutions . 
 Week 6:  Binary
search trees  and predecessor
queries.  Random
binary search
trees ,  AVL
trees , and  rank-balanced trees .  Splay trees ,
static
optimality,  competitive
analysis , and the dynamic optimality conjecture.  Homework 5 , due Thursday, May 16 —
 Solutions . 
 Week 7:  Midterm Tuesday  —  Solutions .  Tries  and  suffix trees .  Homework 6 , due Thursday, May 23 —
 Solutions . 
 Week 8:  Range
searching ,  Dynamic prefix sums 
and  augmented binary search trees .  Homework 7 , due Thursday, May 30 —
 Solutions . 
 Week 9:  Range minima ,  Cartesian trees , and  lowest common ancestors .  Persistence .  Homework 8 , due Thursday, June 6 —
 Solutions . 
 Week 10: Integer searching. Union find. 
   Images of whiteboard
    from lectures  

 See also:  the Fall 2011 syllabus  including
sample homeworks and exams with their solutions, and additional
information linked from that page. 

   David Eppstein , 
 ICS ,  UC Irvine .  </body> 