 The Geometry Junkyard: Models of Polyhedra<body>

 
   
 
  
  
Models of Regular Polyhedra
 
One of the most common forms of  geometric model-making 
involves construction of the five Platonic solids, and of various
related  symmetric 
 three-dimensional 
 polyhedra .
The most common construction methods involve  folding 
and gluing together cut-out paper polygons, 
but some of these model-builders have carved their polyhedra from solid
materials.
 
    Bamboo C.O.R.P.S. . Durable bamboo
models of the Platonic and Archimedean polyhedra, offered for sale.
 
    Beezer's PlayDome .
Rob Beezer makes truncated icosahedra out of old automobile tires.
 
    Breaking Bonds .
Geometric sculpture by Stephen Luecking combining buckyball, hexagon,
and amorphous shapes of carbon molecules.
 
    Cardahedra .
Business card polyhedral origami.
 
    Andrew Crompton .
Grotesque geometry, Tessellations, Lifelike Tilings, Escher style drawings,
Dissection Puzzles, Geometrical Graphics, Mathematical Art. 
Anamorphic Mirrors, Aperiodic tilings, Optical Machines.
 
    Die-cast metal polyhedra 
available for sale from Pedagoguery Software.
 
    Dodecahedral
melon  and other  fruit
polyhedra , by Vi Hart.
 
    Glass
dodecahedron .  Custom-made for Clive Tooth by Bob Aurelius.
 
    High school
buckyball art .
Kerry Stefancyk, Allison Cahill, and Jessica Smith make polyhedral
models out of stained glass.
 
    Interlocking puzzle pieces and other geometric toys .
 
    Jovo Click 'n Construct .
Plastic click-together triangular, square, and pentagonal tiles for
building models of polyhedra and polygonal tilings.
Includes a  mathematical model
gallery 
showing examples of shapes constructable from Jovo.
 
    Landry Art ,
Escheresque tessellations, and balsa and paper polyhedra,
including some prints, t-shirts, and models available for purchase.
 
    Tom
Lechner's Sculptures .  Lechner makes geometric models from wood,
water, plexiglass, and steel.
 
    Materialized Mathematical
Models .
Jan de Koning exercises his furniture-making skills by making
wood, plastic, stone and steel polyhedra.
 
    Modular
pie-cosahedron . Turkey Tek makes geometric models out of pecan pie.
 
    Octacube .
Stainless steel 3d model of the 24-cell (one of the six regular
polytopes in four dimensions), by Adrian Ocneanu, installed as a
sculpture in the Penn State Math Department.  Includes also a shockwave
flythrough of the model.
 
    Origami polyhedra .  Jim Plank makes geometric constructions by
folding paper squares.
 
    Paperforms .
John Vonachen uses laser cutters and spray paint to make and sell paper
models of polyhedra, stellated
polyhedra, polyhedral complexes, Sierpinski tetrahedra, etc.
 
    The pavilion of polyhedreality .
George Hart makes geometric constructions from coffee stirrers and
dacron thread.  Includes many pointers to
related web pages.
 
    Polycell .
George Olshevsky makes and sells polyhedra from colored cardstock.
 
    Polyedergarten .
Ulrich Mikloweit makes polyhedral models out of colored typewriter
paper, cut into lace so you can see the internal structure.
   
   
    Polyhedra
plaited with paper strips , 
H. B. Meyer.
See also  Jim
Blowers' collection of plaited polyhedra .
 
    Polyhedral
solids .  Ray-traced images by Tom Gettys,
and a primer on constructing paper models.
 
    Polyhedron man .
Nice article from Ivars Peterson's Mathland about George Hart and his
polyhedral art.
 
    Rhombic triacosiohedron .  Pretty model of
a nonconvex genus-11 polyhedron with 300 congruent faces.
 
    Rob's
polyhedron models , made with the help of his program
 Stella .
 
    Snub cube and dodecahedron .
Rob Moeser makes geometric constructions by carving broccoli stalks.
 
    Stained glass
icosidodecahedron and rhombicosidodecahedron ,
 Helen &amp; Liam Striker .
 
    Starpage .
Art-deco paper models of stellated polyhedra, by
 merrill .
 
    30 computers .
Forrest McCluer makes polyhedral sculptures out of discarded electronics.
 
    Truncated
icosahedral symmetry . Explains why you might want to use a machined
aluminum buckyball as a gravity-wave detector...
 
    
 
    Truncated
Nano-Octahedron .  Ned Seeman makes polyhedra out of DNA molecules.
 
    Tune's polyhedron models .
Sierpinski octahedra, stellated icosahedra, interlocking
zonohedron-dissection puzzles, and more.
 
    270-strut
tensegrity sphere . Jim Leftwich makes polyhedra out of dowels and
hairbands.
 
    Unfolding polyhedra .
A common way of making models of polyhedra is to unfold the faces into a
planar pattern, cut the pattern out of paper, and fold it back up.
Is this always possible?
 
    Walt's toy
box .  Walt Venables collects geometric toys, and uses them to help
design geodesic domes.
 
    Fr.
Magnus Wenninger , OSB, mathematician, builder of polyhedra.
 
    Wooden ball-and-stick models of Archimedean solids ,
offered for sale by Dr. B's Science Basics.
 
    Wooden
polyhedra  from Japan (but with English explanations). And  more , in Japanese.
 
    The
world's largest icosahedron .  Jason Rosenfeld makes polyhedra
out of ten foot poles and shark fishing line.
 
    Vedder Wright
makes geometric models out of plastic forks .
 
     
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  Send email  if you
know of an appropriate page not listed here.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 