 undergraduate degree in computer science and engineering @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  Degrees  


     
 Undergraduate degree in Computer Science and Engineering 

 
 

  DEGREES AVAILABLE: Major  Offered jointly with The Henry Samueli School of Engineering </strong> 
   
 The Computer Science and Engineering major gives students access to multidisciplinary problems with a focus on total systems engineering. 
 Students will learn the computer science principles that are critical to development of software, hardware and networking of computer systems. 
 From that background, engineering concepts and methods are added to give students exposure to circuit design, network design and digital signal processing. 
 Elements of engineering practice include the systems view, manufacturing and economic issues, and multi-disciplinary engineering applications. 
 This program is designed to provide students with the fundamentals of computer science, both hardware and software, and the application of engineering concepts, techniques and methods to both computer systems engineering and software system design. 
   ›  Is Computer Science and Engineering for me?   ›  What do I take?   ›  What can I do with this degree?   ›  Still not sure?    
    
 Is Computer Science and Engineering for me? 
 Graduates of the program will: 
  establish a productive Computer Science and Engineering career in industry, government, or academia; 
 engage in professional practice of computer systems engineering and software systems engineering; 
 promote the development of innovative systems and solutions using hardware and software integration; 
 promote design, research, and implementation of products and services in the field of Computer Science and Engineering through strong communication, leadership, and entrepreneurial skills. 
  For more information on CSE goals and objectives see  http://plaza.eng.uci.edu/degree-program/cse/mission . 
 Annual student enrollment and graduation data can be found at:  http://www.oir.uci.edu/student-data.html . Please note that annual student enrollment and graduation data for CSE is the sum of the data under both Engineering and Information and Computer Science. 
 ↑  Back to top  
  
 What do I take? 
 For a full listing of the degree requirements, see the  General Catalogue . 
 To better help students plan their upcoming quarters,  a list of approved science elective courses*  for satisfying the CSE major's science elective requirement has been made available. 
  *The science elective must be taken at UCI if the student is currently enrolled at UCI.  
 Students are encouraged to consult an academic advisor in the Bren School of ICS to determine the coursework designed to meet their educational goals. 
↑  Back to top      
 What can I do with this degree? 
  Computer Science and Engineering majors are involved in building the hardware infrastructure – computers, networks, embedded devices, as well as operating systems, compilers and networking software. 
 The focus is on cooperation between hardware and software to yield the highest performance. 
 Examples of such problem areas would be in traffic management, flight control, earthquake monitoring, automotive control and smart homes. 
 Many students also go on to graduate school, continuing their studies, conducting research, and earning graduate degrees in computer engineering, computer science, information science, management or law. 
 ↑ Back to top  
  
 Still not sure? 
  
Prospective and current UCI students interested in learning more about the Bren School’s degree options are encouraged to meet with the school’s 
counselors and student ambassadors. They will help you determine which of our majors and minors best support your academic strengths and 
interests. Call our Student Affairs Office at 949-824-5156 to make an appointment. 
 
  ↑ Back to top  


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 