 Research projects, UCI System Test Laboratory<body>
    
     


  
   
       xxxxxx  
        UCI System Test Laboratory</strong>   xxxxxx  
        Research Projects</strong> 
   


      
        
       Testing Home 
	 
       Projects 

	  
       Publications 
	  
       Links 
     
 



   
      
        

	   Hardware-Software Covalidation  

	

A hardware-software system can be defined as one in which hardware and
software must be designed together, and must interact to properly
implement system functionality. The widespread use of these systems in
cost-critical and life-critical applications motivates the need for a
systematic approach to verify functionality. In order to manage the
complexity of the problem, many researchers are investigating  
covalidation   techniques, in which functionality is verified by
simulating (or emulating) a system description with a given test input
sequence. The tractability of covalidation makes it the only practical
solution for many real designs. A practical difficulty in the
validation of hardware-software systems has been the wide gap between
the hardware design and the software engineering communities. During
the design of a system, lack of communication between hardware and
software design groups causes system defects to be discovered late in
the design process, requiring costly redesign. Covalidation brings
together hardware validation and software testing approaches to
address the hardware-software covalidation problem with a uniform
approach.


	   Behavioral Design Validation  
	
Design validation by simulation-based techniques is the most common
approach to hardware verification due to the computational complexity of more
formal techniques. Validation entails the generation of a test pattern
sequence which is applied to the design during simulation to trigger
erroneous behavior. Since simulation can only be performed with a
small subset of the entire space of test sequences, some method is
needed to estimate the degree of verification achieved by a given test
sequence. The degree of verification afforded by a test sequence must
be known in order to direct test pattern generation, and to provide
the designer with the knowledge that verification goals have been
achieved. Research in software testing has produces several validation metrics 
which operate at the behavioral level, including simple metrics such as 
statement and branch coverage, as well as more complex metrics based on
mutation and dataflow analysis. We are investigating the application of
software testing metrics to measure hardware validation coverage. We
are also developing metrics to enable the detection of faults
associated with concurrency and timing.



	   Testing of FPGA Architectures  

As IC densities are increasing, cluster-based FPGA architectures are
becoming the architecture of choice for major FPGA manufacturers. A
cluster-based architecture is one in which several logic blocks are
grouped together into a coarse-grained logic block. The high density
local interconnect serves to improve FPGA utilization, but also
greatly complicates the FPGA interconnect testing problem. We have
developed a hierarchical approach to define a set of FPGA
configurations which enable interconnect faults to be detected. This
technique is applicable to any cluster-based FPGA architecture and
enables the detection of bridging faults involving intra-cluster
interconnect and extra-cluster interconnect. The hierarchical
structure of a cluster-based tile is exploited to define intra-cluster
configurations separately from extra-cluster configurations, thereby
improving the efficiency of the configuration definition process. By
guaranteeing that both intra-cluster and extra-cluster configurations
have several test transparency properties, hierarchical fault
detectability is ensured.



  

  
    
  
</body> 