 bryan seeman spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Bryan Seeman spotlight 

 
 

  Staying Connected</strong>
 
 
  Bryan Semaan receives his  
  CAHS 
   Fellowship award from 
   CAHS co-char Susan Samueli. 
 
 When one of the Southern California firestorms broke out in Ontario last October, the city’s emergency response team utilized a disaster Web portal that allowed emergency responders to provide the public with real-time information in a crisis. 
 Ontario's residents used the portal’s interactive maps to check on the fire’s progress, find out which streets were closed, monitor mandatory evacuations and locate evacuation centers. 
 Systems like these are what Informatics Ph.D. student Bryan Semaan and his advisor Gloria Mark, along with UCI colleague Martha Feldman, are studying to better understand the extent which people use technology to continue their collaborative work despite living in a disrupted environment. 
 Semaan's research recently garnered him the $10,000 Coalition Advocating Human Security (CAHS) Fellowship. 
 Created in 2005 by the  UCI Center for Unconventional Security Affairs , the fellowship selects researchers who will advance the organizations mission of promoting research, education, public awareness, and evidence based policy making to address urgent cases of vulnerability linked to global changes that impact the lives of individuals, communities, and nations. 
 
 Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.
 
 “We are conducting an empirical study of people who experience prolonged disruptions to their work and personal lives and how technology helps them cope with adversity to continue living life as normally as possible,” Semaan said. “Our goal is to design and build systems to help people deal with the changing environment at work and at home.” 
 It was the mix of technology and social issues that drew Semaan to the Informatics Ph.D. program at UCI.  
 “When most people think of computer science they think of Office Space and the stereotypical programmer working out of a cubicle,” Semaan said. “I knew from my first day as an undergraduate that lifestyle was not for me.” 
 While he still enjoys solving technical problems, solving social problems with technical solutions is his real passion.  
 The Informatics program at UCI allowed him to blend his passion for better understanding the ways in which people coordinate work, with more technical solutions such as designing more usable interfaces, and the actual design of software systems. 
 “In order to better understand these problems the school has provided me with methods most wouldn’t expect out of a computer science program, such as those grounded in anthropological and sociological theory,” Semaan said. “It is this interdisciplinary blend that attracted me.” 
 The location of the campus between two major cities, is great too.  
 “Irvine is located in between San Diego and Los Angeles, which means there is a lot to do if you really want to, yet secluded enough to keep to yourself and get work done.”
             
  CONTRIBUTIONS FOR THE GREATER GOOD</strong> 
 Semaan, a San Diego native, received his bachelor degree in 2005 from UCI and decided to pursue a Ph.D. because he was excited to work with other academics and contribute to the field of computer science. 
 “It’s not as if you’re only trying to learn material in a course you’re taking, rather, you’re doing something fresh and fun that can potentially benefit society,” Semaan said. “The academic environment is one that is conducive to the constant sharing of ideas and I wanted to actively participate.”  
 Semaan has taken the active participation of idea sharing a step further as a teaching assistant, where he enjoys teaching and learning from his peers. 
 “Rather than making my own intellectual contributions, the notion of teaching others is great, as I firmly believe it is equally important, if not more so, to put as much emphasis on teaching as we do research,” Semaan said. “We, as teachers, can potentially help inspire those who will go on and do great things.” 
 Though Semaan is still debating whether he wants to pursue a career in industry or academia, his decision will hinge on which career will allow him to use his expertise to develop technology that will aid people and benefit society. 
 “The beauty of being a computer scientist, especially in California, is the strong relationship between industry and academia in our field.” Semaan said.  
  FINDING A BALANCE</strong> 
 An avid player of video games, especially those on the Nintendo Wii, Semaan also loves playing and watching sports like soccer, baseball and basketball and hanging out with friends and family. 
 Semaan’s parents are both from Iraq, and are part of a very small Iraqi minority group known as Assyrians and Chaldeans, which consist of the Iraqi Catholic/Christian population.  
 “We have a tight-knit family oriented community and our cultural traditions continue here in the states,” Semaan said. “Thus it is difficult balancing home life and school life. However, it’s all about setting and maintaining a routine.” 
 His strong faith has lead him to become the club advisor for the Assyrian-Chaldean Student Alliance, an organization through which he has met many people and made many life long friendships.  
 Though at times it can be difficult for Semaan to find time for his hobbies, he stresses that finding a balance between work and play is one of the keys to success as a Ph.D. student. 
 “Balance work, studying and leisure activities,” Semaan said. “Make sure to discuss the program and the requirements with fellow graduates because their advice is invaluable.” 
  - Eric Kowalik  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 