 Theory Seminar, 18 October 2002<body>
    

 ICS 269, Spring 2002: Theory Seminar 

  18 October 2002: 
Title: Algorithms for Fault-Tolerant Routing in Circuit Switched Networks
 
Speaker: Amitabha Bagchi 

 
Abstract:
We consider the  k  edge-disjoint paths problem
( k -EDP), a generalization of the well known edge-disjoint paths
problem. Given a graph  G =( V,E ) and a set of terminal pairs (or
requests)  T , the problem is to find a maximum subset of the pairs in
 T  for which it is possible to select paths such that each pair is
connected by  k  edge-disjoint paths and the paths for different pairs
are mutually disjoint.  To the best of our knowledge, no nontrivial
result is known for this problem for  k &gt;1. To measure the performance
of our algorithms we use the recently introduced flow number  F  of a
graph. This parameter is known to fulfill  F=O ( Delta alpha  -1  log
 n ), where  Delta  is the maximum degree and  alpha  is the edge
expansion of  G . We show that a simple, greedy online algorithm
achieves a competitive ratio of  O ( k  3  F ), which naturally
extends the best known bound of  O ( F ) for  k =1 to higher  k .  To
achieve this competitive ratio, we introduce a new method of
converting a system of  k  disjoint paths into a system of  k 
length-bounded disjoint paths.
  
In addition, we study the  k disjoint flows problem  ( k -DFP),
which is a generalization of the previously studied unsplittable flow
problem (UFP). The difference between the  k -DFP and the  k -EDP is
that now we consider a graph with edge capacities and our requests are
allowed to have arbitrary demands  d i  . The aim is to find a subset
of requests of maximum total demand for which it is possible to select
flow paths such that all the capacity constraints are maintained and
each selected request with demand  d i   is connected by  k  disjoint
paths, each of flow value  d i /k .
  
This talk is based on work done jointly with Amitabh Chaudhary,
Christian Scheideler and Petr Kolman.
 </body> 