 Mahmoud Hammad, Author at Software Engineering and Analysis Lab (SEAL) 
 
	
	 
			  Software Engineering and Analysis Lab (SEAL)  

			 
				 Search 
			 

			
				 Skip to content 
				    About SEAL  
  Members  
  Publications  
  Research Projects  
  Tools  
  Blog  
  			 

		 
			 
				
				 
					 Search for: 
					 
							 
		 
	 

	 

			
			 
					All posts by Mahmoud Hammad				 
							 
			  News  
		 
		  Eric Yuan defended his PhD thesis  
		 
			  May 4, 2016      Mahmoud Hammad   		 
	 
		  Eric Yuan  defended his PhD thesis at George Mason University. 
  Thesis title</strong>: Architecture-Based Self-Protecting Software Systems 
  Abstract</strong>:  Security is increasingly a principal concern that drives the design and construction of modern software systems. Since conventional software security approaches are often manually developed and statically deployed, they are no longer sufficient against today’s sophisticated and evolving cyber security threats. This has motivated the development of  self-protecting software  that is capable of detecting security threats and mitigating them through runtime adaptation techniques. Much self-protection research to-date, however, has focused on specific system layers (e.g., network, host, or middleware), but lacks the ability to understand the “whole picture” and deploy defensive strategies intelligently. 
 ​​In this dissertation, I make a case for an  architecture-based self-protection  (ABSP) approach to address this challenge. In ABSP, detection and mitigation of security threats are informed by an architectural representation of the running system, maintained at runtime. With this approach, it is possible to reason about the impact of a potential security breach on the system, assess the overall security posture of the system, and achieve defense in depth. 
 ​To demonstrate the feasibility of this approach, I designed and implemented an autonomous self-protection framework called ARMOUR, consisting of three key elements: (1) a class of machine learning techniques to mine a software system’s execution history  at runtime , in order to develop a probabilistic architectural model that represents the system’s normal behavior; (2) a novel anomaly detection algorithm that can detect in near real-time security threats that violate the system usage model; and (3) a set of architectural adaptation patterns that provide intelligent, repeatable threat mitigation against well-known web application security threats. 
 ​My extensive evaluation of the ARMOUR framework against a real world emergency response system has shown very promising results, showing the framework can effectively detect covert attacks, including insider threats, that may be easily missed by traditional intrusion detection methods, thereby providing an additional line of defense for component-based software systems. The evaluations also demonstrate many practical advantages of the framework, including unsupervised learning with no need for clean training data and potential to detect unknown threats. 
 Finally, I extend the ABSP approach to a deployment topology self-optimization scenario to illustrate that mining architecture-level system behavior models may help improve other quality attributes of a software system beyond security. 
 
	  
	
	 
			  News  
		 
		  Ehsan Kouroshfar defended his PhD thesis  
		 
			  May 4, 2016      Mahmoud Hammad   		 
	 
		  Ehsan Kouroshfar   defended his PhD thesis at George Mason University. 
  Title</strong>: An Empirical Study of the Interplay between Architecture and Software Quality using Evolutionary History of Software 
  Abstract</strong>: Conventional wisdom suggests that a software system’s architecture has a significant impact on its evolution. Well-designed software architecture employs the principle of separation of concern to allocate different functionalities and responsibilities to different architectural elements comprising the system and it is easier to make changes to a software system that has a well-designed architecture. Conversely, bad architecture, manifested as architectural bad smells, can increase the complexity, possibly leading to poor software quality. 
 However, a software system’s architecture is known to commonly undergo the phenomenon of architectural decay, where changes and design decisions are added to the system which may break the initially designed system’s software architecture. Architectural decay has a negative impact on maintaining the system and results in defects and architectural problems in the system. Thus detecting and preferably avoiding decay will save considerable time and other resources from developers and stakeholders in a system. 
 This dissertation targets empirical research in the domain of architecture-based software maintenance. It benefits from both fields of software architecture and mining software repository. The mining software repository (MSR) field investigates the rich data in source code repositories and defect repositories to uncover interesting information about software systems. For example data in source code repositories can be linked with data in defect repositories to observe what kind of changes would result in more defects. This would help to warn practitioners and developers about risky changes based on prior changes and faults. 
 In this research, I first investigate the impact of software architecture on defects from evolutionary history of software. To do that, I designed an empirical study to see whether there is a difference between types of changes made to a software system from software architecture perspective. Specifically I wanted to investigate the impact of co-changes involving several architectural modules versus co-changes localized within a single module. This provided empirical evidence for the importance of considering of software architecture while making changes to a system. 
 Next, I construct novel models that predict the quality of an architectural element by utilizing multiple architectural views (both structural and semantic) and architectural metrics as features for prediction. Using these models, I could predict low architectural quality, i.e., architectural decay in software systems. Engineers can significantly benefit from determining which architectural elements will decay before that decay actually occurs. Forecasting decay allows engineers to take steps to prevent decay, such as focusing maintenance resources on the architectural elements most likely to decay. 
 This research underlines the importance of software architecture in the construction and maintenance of software. 
	 
	
	 
	 
			 Recent News 		  
				 HaCkEd By RxR HaCkEr 
							 June 13, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Nariman Mirzaei defended his PhD thesis 
							 June 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Reyhaneh Jabbarvand advanced to candidacy 
							 May 27, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Practical, Formal Synthesis and Automatic Enforcement of Security Policies for Android — DSN 2016 
							 May 6, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Eric Yuan defended his PhD thesis 
							 May 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Ehsan Kouroshfar defended his PhD thesis 
							 May 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Energy-Aware Test-Suite Minimization for Android Apps — ISSTA 2016 
							 April 18, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Reducing Combinatorics in GUI Testing of Android Applications — ICSE 2016 
							 December 20, 2015 
						 
					 
				 Move to UC Irvine 
							 July 1, 2015 
						 
					 
				 Detection of Design Flaws in the Android Permission Protocol through Bounded Verification — FM 2015 
							 June 24, 2015 
						 
				  
 
		 University of California, Irvine 
	
		 
		   
		
				 
					 Search for: 
					 
				 
	 

		 

		 
								 Proudly powered by WordPress 
			 
		 

	</body> 