 Social Analysis of PRISM » EVOKE Lab and Studio 


  



 

		
		 
			 EVOKE Lab and Studio 
		 


		   Home  
  About  
  News  
  Events  
  Projects  
  People  
  Blog  
  Contact  
   
 

					
		 
			 Portfolio 
			 Social Analysis of PRISM 
		 

		 
			 
			

				
				          View Images     
					 

						 The PRISM Project at UC-San Diego and the Qualcomm Institute is the continuation of a long-term program to install high-bandwidth networking capabilities on the UCSD campus and surrounding area. By supporting advanced facilities to transfer large amounts of scientific data, the PRISM project extends the earlier OptIPuter and Quartzite development projects. Our team engaged with the rollout of the PRISM network by conducting interviews, observational sessions, and policy analyses with key stakeholders and laboratories poised to integrate with the new network, particularly with an eye toward obstacles and barriers to adoption. Our findings can be summarized as follow: 
  New technologies impact current scientific practices and workflows, sometimes in disruptive ways. Scientists have reservations about enrolling into a new technology, despite the promise of benefits, if they perceive that the impact on their own scientific work will be too great. 
 Scientific laboratories do not have clear incentives to be the experimental subjects of infrastructure research, and are hesitant to absorb the experimental risk of networking research into their own work. This is to say that enrolling into an experimental network technology internalizes the risk of failure into their own scientific data and computational resources. 
 Campus network projects and upgrades embed assumptions about the campus being the relevant unit of observation and analysis for development, implementation, service provisioning, and evaluation. Our interviews revealed that  campus  may be less relevant to scientific laboratories, and the level of service is mismatched for their needs. Instead, scientists tend to focus on the hyper-local context (activities within their own lab) or the extra-campus world (communicating and transferring data to colleagues and institutions outside of the campus). 
 Defining and measuring success criteria of visionary programs that include “creating new data imaginaries” (understood as inspiring scientists to develop, exchange, and use a broader range of scientific data and related tools to explore new inter- and trans-disciplinary questions) and “promoting new types of collaboration” requires both qualitative and quantitative approaches to evaluation. The unfolding of such high-level goals have uncertain temporalities and trajectories, and will likely defy standard metrics of success and regimes of evaluation. 
    
   PRISM Social Analysis Project Team</strong>  
  Matthew Bietz 
 Cory Knobel 
 Geoffrey C. Bowker 
 Deborah Forster (Qualcomm Institute) 
 Steve Slota 
 Andy Echenique 
 Courtney Loder 
  

				 
				
								 
				 
					 Leave a Reply 
				 
				  Cancel reply  
									
																										 Name* 
					 Email* 
					 Website 
					 Comment*  
							 
						    					
							 
											
				 

				

						 

			    « Previous </strong> 
			    Next » </strong> 
			 

		  
	 

	 

		
		 
		  Portfolio Details 
		  

		   Posted By:</strong> Cory Knobel 
			  Added:</strong> April 10, 2014 

			
				  More Info</strong>					 Social, organizational, and policy dimensions of research infrastructure implementation  

				 
				
					  

 
 

		 EVOKE Lab &amp; Studio @ University of California-Irvine © 2017   ^ Top  

	 
</body> 