 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Articles  


     
  

 
 

  March 25,  2014</strong>      Dechter publishes new book on graphical models in artificial intelligence</strong>    

   
Professor Rina Dechter recently published a new book based upon her extensive work in artificial intelligence with application to machine learning, titled 
  Reasoning with Probabilistic and Deterministic Graphical Models: Exact Algorithms  . Published by Morgan Claypool in December, the work is part of the firm’s series, Synthesis Lectures on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning.

  
In the book, Dechter, a computer science professor and vice chair of her department’s computing division, describes how computation can be performed with graphical models (e.g., Bayesian and constraint networks, influence diagrams, and Markov decision processes), which have become a central paradigm for knowledge representation and reasoning in both artificial intelligence in particular and computer science in general. Such tasks are computationally difficult, but Dechter states that research during the past three decades has yielded a variety of principles and techniques that have significantly advanced the state of the art.

  
Dechter goes on to provide comprehensive coverage of the primary exact algorithms for reasoning with such models. The main feature exploited by the algorithms is the model's graph. She presents inference-based message-passing schemes and search-based, conditioning schemes. Dechter writes that the principles outlined in the book would serve well in moving forward to approximation and anytime-based schemes. The target audience of the book is researchers and students in the artificial intelligence and machine learning area — and beyond.

  
Dechter’s research into the algorithmic foundations of automated reasoning with constraint-based and probabilistic information helped earn her a 
 prestigious Association of Computing Machinery (ACM) fellowship  late last year. She also is the author of the book  Constraint Processing  (2003) and has authored more than 150 papers.



  Dechter publishes new book on graphical models in artificial intelligence 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 