 Speech-Based Situational Awareness for Crisis Response. (EMWS 2009)<body>

 
             

 Speech-Based Situational Awareness for Crisis Response 
 Appeared in EMWS 2009 
  
Dmitri V. Kalashnikov, Dilek Hakkani-Tur, Gokhan Tur, and Nalini Venkatasubramanian
 

 
Computer Science Department 
University of California, Irvine
 

 
 Abstract 
 

 
The goal of our work is to explore research in the
framework of an end-to-end speech processing system that
can automatically process human conversations to create
situational awareness during crisis response. Situational
awareness refers to knowledge about the unfolding crisis
event, the needs, the resources, and the context. Accurate
assessment of the situation is vital to enable first responders
(and the public) to take appropriate actions that can have
significant impact on life and property. Consider, for instance,
a situation of a large structural fire wherein teams of fire
fighters enter into a burning building for search and rescue.
Knowledge of the location of fire fighters, their physiological
status, the ambient conditions and environment are critical for
the success and safety of both the victims and fire fighters.
Appropriate situational awareness is critical not just at
incident level, but at all levels of response. For instance,
knowledge of occupancy levels, the special needs of the
populace, the road-closures, the geographical scope of the
disaster (e.g., the fire perimeter), etc. play a vital role in
evacuation and shelter planning and in organizing medical
triage.

The importance of accurate and actionable situational
awareness in crisis response is now well recognized [1] and
has led to significant research on appropriate sensing,
networking, sensor processing, information sharing, data
management, and decision support tools. The research team at
the UC Irvine, Center for Emergency Response Technologies
(CERT) has been extensively involved in working with a
variety of first responder organizations to build a variety of
such tools in the context of the NSF funded RESCUE
(Responding to Crises and Unexpected Events) project [2]
and the DHS funded SAFIRE project [3]. Our experience
working with rescue personnel has clearly established that
while sensors (including motes, video, physiological, location,
environmental) are important, speech is undoubtedly the
single most important source of situational information. The
very first point of contact of citizens with the responders
during an emergency is through a telephone call to the 911
dispatch system. In case of large disasters that involve a larger
team of responders (such as a fire-fighting team), the primary
mechanism used for communication and coordination among
response teams is through radios carried by the first
responders. Such conversations contain perhaps what
constitutes the most important situational information that has
direct implications on the efficacy of the response. Despite
importance of speech, today, assimilation of situational
information from speech is almost entirely done manually.
 


  Categories and Subject Descriptors 
H.2.m [ Database Management ] Miscellaneous - Situational Awareness; 
I.2.7  [ Natural Language Processing ]: Speech recognition and synthesis;    Keywords 
Speech Processing, Situational Awareness, Crisis Response

  
  Downloadable Files 
Paper:  EMWS09_dvk.pdf  
Presentation:  EMWS09_dvk.ppt    BibTeX Entry 
 @inproceedings{EMWS09::dvk,
   author    = {Dmitri V. Kalashnikov and Dilek Hakkani-Tur and Gokhan Tur
                and Nalini Venkatasubramanian},
   title     = {Speech-Based Situational Awareness for Crisis Response},
   booktitle = {The U.S. DHS Workshop on Emergency Management: Incident, Resource,
                and Supply Chain Management (EMWS09)},
   year      = {2009},
   month     = {November 5--6},
   address   = {Irvine, CA, USA}
}


 
 Back to Kalashnikov's homepage 
     © 2011 Dmitri V. Kalashnikov. All Rights Reserved.  
    </body> 