 Dr. Rina Dechter @ UCI<body>
 
 
     R198  
|     
        
Extending the Reach of AND/OR Search for Optimization over Graphical Models
        
       
      Lars Otten
           
              Abstract   
This thesis presents substantial enhancements to the state of the art in combinatorial optimization over graphical models. Our contributions are relevant in the context of both exact
and approximate reasoning over Bayesian and Markov networks, weighted constraint satisfaction problems, and other related queries. While the focus of this work is on probabilistic
and constraint inference, we also draw from the areas of distributed computing and statistical learning. Relevant practical applications we consider include genetic linkage analysis,
protein side-chain prediction, medical diagnosis, resource scheduling, and signal processing.

 We extend AND/OR Branch-and-Bound (AOBB), a leading algorithm for optimization
queries over graphical models. AOBB applies the principle of depth-first branch-and-bound
to AND/OR search spaces, which exploit conditional independencies via problem decomposition and merge unifiable subproblems through caching of partial solutions. This thesis
presents fundamental extensions to AOBB in three regards.

  First, we significantly improve the applicability of AOBB as an approximation scheme. We
analyze and demonstrate the inherent conflict between problem decomposition (through
AND/OR search spaces) and the anytime behavior of AOBB and depth-first search in
general. We introduce a new algorithm, Breadth-Rotating AND/OR Branch-and-Bound
(BRAOBB), which drastically improves upon AOBB with respect to its anytime performance while maintaining desirable depth-first complexity guarantees. Comprehensive analysis and experimental evaluation demonstrate the scheme’s effectiveness. Furthermore, our
entry based on BRAOBB placed first in all three optimization tracks of the PASCAL 2012
Probabilistic Inference Challenge.

  Second, we investigate the instance-based run-time complexity of AOBB. The asymptotic
worst-case bounds are both time and space exponential in the problem’s induced width, but
often prove to be very loose due to the algorithm’s powerful pruning, as we show empirically.
We identify a range of (sub)problem features and develop learning schemes to estimate runtime complexity based on statistical regression analysis. We conduct extensive experimental
evaluation within and across various problem classes and demonstrate convincing predictive
performance.

  Third, we describe a parallel AND/OR Branch-and-Bound scheme that pushes the boundaries of feasibility for exact reasoning by orders of magnitude. We adapt the paradigm of
parallel tree search to AND/OR search spaces; our implementation distributes conditioned
subproblems on a grid of independent computers. In this context, we show how the pruning
power of AOBB can cause large variance in subproblem complexity, which makes load balancing extremely elusive and impairs parallel performance. We thus propose load balancing
based on the run-time estimation scheme presented earlier in the thesis, learning a complexity model offline from previously solved subproblems. Through experimental results using
hundreds of computers on problem instances from a variety of classes we show convincing
parallel performance with several orders of magnitude speedup over sequential AOBB, but
we also highlight and analyze some inherent limitations.

  Our implementations of AOBB, BRAOBB and parallel AOBB are available online under an
open-source license.

  
       
        
       [pdf]  
       
        
 </body> 