 Front Matter<body>
 
       
     
        
 OEChem - C++ Theory Manual
 
Version 1.3.1      
     
   
   
   Previous:   OEChem - C++ Theory 
 Up:   OEChem - C++ Theory 
 Next:   Contents 
   


    
 
Front Matter
 

 
Copyright © 1997-2004 by OpenEye Scientific Software, Santa Fe,
New Mexico. All rights reserved.

  
All rights reserved.  This material contains proprietary information
of OpenEye Scientific Software.  Use of copyright notice is
precautionary only and does not imply publication or disclosure.

  
The information supplied in this document is believed to be true but
no liability is assumed for its use or the infringement of the rights
of others resulting from its use.  Information in this document is
subject to change without notice and does not represent a commitment
on the part of OpenEye Scientific Software.

  
This package is sold/licensed/distributed subject to the condition
that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent, re-sold,
hired out or otherwise circulated without OpenEye Scientific
Software's prior consent, in any form of packaging or cover other than
that in which it was produced.  No part of this manual or accompanying
documentation, may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system on
optical or magnetic disk, tape, CD, DVD or other medium, or
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical,
photocopying recording or otherwise for any purpose other than for the
purchaser's personal use without a legal agreement or other written
permission granted by OpenEye.

  
This product should not be used in the planning, construction,
maintenance, operation or use of any nuclear facility nor the flight,
navigation or communication of aircraft or ground support equipment.
OpenEye Scientific software, shall not be liable, in whole or in part,
for any claims arising from such use, including death, bankruptcy or
outbreak of war.

  
Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.  Apple and
Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. AIX and
IBM are registered trademarks of International Business Machines
Corporation. UNIX is a registered trademark of the Open Group.  RedHat
is a registered trademark of RedHat, Inc.  Linux is a registered
trademark of Linus Torvalds.  Alpha is a trademark of Digital
Equipment Corporation.  SPARC is a registered trademark of SPARC
International Inc.

  
SYBYL is a registered trademark of TRIPOS, Inc.  MDL is a registered
trademark and ISIS is a trademark of MDL Information Systems, Inc.
Macromodel is a trademark of Schrödinger, Inc.  Schrödinger, Inc may
be a wholly owned subsidiary of the Columbia University, New York.

  
Python is a trademark of the Python Software Foundation.

  
"The forefront of chemoinformatics" is a trademark of Daylight
Chemical Information Systems, Inc.

  
Other products and software packages referenced in this document are
trademarks and registered trademarks if their respective vendors or
manufacturers.

  

  

  
          
     
        
 OEChem - C++ Theory Manual
 
Version 1.3.1      
     
   
   
   Previous:   OEChem - C++ Theory 
 Up:   OEChem - C++ Theory 
 Next:   Contents 
  Documentation released on July 30, 2004. 
 


</body> 