 Implementations of the WebDAV Distributed Authoring
Protocol<body>
 Implementations of the WebDAV Distributed Authoring Protocol 

 Below is a list of servers and client applications that have
documented support for the WebDAV Distributed Authoring Protocol (RFC
2518). Some may also have support for the DeltaV versioning and
configuration management protocol (RFC 3253), and the DAV Searching
and Locating (DASL) protocol. 

 Though we strive to keep this list up-to-date, there are frequent
changes made to the pages linked from this page, and it is very
difficult to maintain this site. If a specific link is broken, you can
often go to the home page for a specific corporation and search
for the keyword "WebDAV" to find current documents. 

  WebDAV Implementations  

 Servers 

   LiveLink   WebDAV  -
WebDAV gateway to the Livelink collaboration, knowledge management
and document management server ( data
sheet (PDF) ).

   Merant   PVCS
Dimensions  - A "process control, workflow management, version
management, issue management, build management, baseline management,
and release management" system has full  WebDAV
support  ( data sheet (PDF) ).

   Merant   PVCS
Content Manager  - A browser-based Web content management
system. It provides full  WebDAV
support  ( data sheet (PDF) ).

   SilverStream   eXtend
Director  - Provides WebDAV support that allows people to "author and
edit content via browser or any WebDAV-compliant tool, and enjoy full
web publishing features like version control, document types, XSL
style sheet management, ubiquitous delivery". A test server is
available ( details ).

   4D   WebStar V  - A
full-featured web server for the Macintosh platform. Has full class 2
support.

   Enhanced
Storage Solution  -  iDrive  ESS
supports the WebDAV protocol as one of its "subscriber applications".

   Driveway
Software Platform  -  Driveway  Software Platform is the
software that was behind the Driveway online storage system service,
now discontinued. Driveway offers WebDAV support.


   Sharepoint  -
Microsoft's Sharepoint Portal Server supports WebDAV as one of
its  standard interfaces .

   Internet
File System  - iFS is Oracle's Internet File System product, which
supports WebDAV as one of the protocol interfaces to the iFS store.

   Hyperwave
Information Server 6  - Hyperwave now provides WebDAV access into
the Hyperwave repository. The Hyperwave  eKnowledge
Suite  and  eLearning
Suite  both use IS/6 and hence also have DAV support.

   Jigsaw  - Jigsaw, the
 W3C's 
reference HTTP server implementation, provides full class 2 (locking) WebDAV  support .

   mod_dav  - An Apache
module which implements a full Class 2 WebDAV server (locking support
was added in the latest release).  mod_dav is open source, and freely
downloadable.

   Xythos Storage Server  - The
Xythos Storage Server is a fully functional WebDAV server. Free WebDAV-enabled
storage areas powered by the Xythos server are available at
 Sharemation.com . Storage
Server also supports DAV Searching and Locating (DASL), which can be
used from a Sharemation account.

   Magi_Dav  - A Java module
for Apache that implements a class 2 WebDAV server.  Designed to have
a small footprint so it can be used on a wide range of devices, such
as laptop and palmtop computers. Comes with a client application that
exploits WebDAV for file sharing and instant messaging. Magi_Dav is
open source and freely downloadable.

   IIS
5  - Microsoft supports WebDAV in IIS 5, which is incorporated into Windows 2000 Server.

   Exchange
2000  - Exchange 2000 provides a WebDAV
interface into its Web Store.  More information can be found in this
 MSDN
article .

   DAV4J  - A
Java servlet which turns either WebSphere AppServer or Apache into a
full-featured (class 2) WebDAV server. Source code is now available on
IBM's DeveloperWorks site.

   InScope  -  Adobe 
InScope provides  WebDAV support  for this publishing-oriented asset
management server. 

   Virtuoso  -
Virtuoso is a cross-platform e-business integration server. In
addition to WebDAV, it also supports SOAP, POP, IMAP, and NNTP, along
with XML, and XSL.

   Netware 6 &amp;
5.1  - Novell Netware versions 5.1 and 6 provide full WebDAV
support, including interoperability with Office 2000 and Web Folders.

   Zope  - The Zope project, a
"free, Open Source(tm) web application platform used for building
high performance webs sites" has added WebDAV support which is
tightly integrated with the Zope object model and security system.
Currently a class 1 WebDAV server. Details on using Zope's DAV support
can be found in the article, " Authoring
Content with WebDAV and FTP ".

   4Suite  - An open source XML
data server. Provides class 1 (no locking) WebDAV support.

   Intraspect 5  -
A fully functional WebDAV server ( details ). WebDAV
provides remote access into this repository that provides a central
place from which to access, use, manage information in all common
electronic forms.

   WebSite Director WebDAV
Server  -  CyberTeams  has
 added WebDAV
support  to WebSite Director, and WebSite Director Lite. 

   kirra-httpd  - A small
class 1 WebDAV server written in Perl using libwww-perl-5,
Net::Daemon, and HTML::EP. Freely downloadable.

   WebRFM 
- Web Remote File Manager is a Perl CGI program which provides both
Class 1 DAV support, along with Forms-based file access, and support
for HTTP/1.1 authoring tools like AOLpress, Netscape Composer, and Amaya.

   PyDAV 
- A Python-based Class 2 WebDAV server, developed at Xerox PARC, is
available for interoperability testing at sandbox.xerox.com, port
8080.  It also supports the MKREF method, defined in an early revision
of the Advanced Collections Specification.

   python
davserver  - A Python-based class 1 WebDAV server. The server is
written as a series of Python classes that should make it easy for
to write a WebDAV server in Python. This server is used by
 GROUP.lounge , a Web-based
groupware server for document sharing and collaboration.

   Clients 

   Subversion  - A
configuration management tool designed as a replacement for CVS, which
usees DeltaV as its protocol.

   WebDrive  -
 South River Technologies  provides
WebDrive, software that maps a WebDAV or FTP server location to a local drive.
WebDrive also supports SSL and SSH protocols.

   TeamDrive  -  TeamStream  TeamDrive maps a
WebDAV or FTP server to a Windows drive.

   XML Spy 4.1  -  Altova  XML Spy is an
Integrated Development Environment for XML. It supports an  Open URL 
command that can make use of WebDAV.

   Dreamweaver 
- Dreamweaver 4 provides support for WebDAV, under a feature labeled
" SourceSafe
and WebDAV Integration ".

   MacOS X  - Apple MacOS X
supports the WebDAV
file system (webdavfs), which allows WebDAV servers to be mounted as
file systems which can then be accessed from the Macintosh desktop.

   Acrobat 
-  Adobe  Acrobat 5 supports 
WebDAV for remote collaborative annotation of PDF documents.

   Photoshop  -  Adobe  Photoshop 6 supports the WebDAV
protocol, allowing remote authoring of images.  A brief mention of WebDAV can be
found in this  white
paper , page 17, left hand column.

   Illustrator
10  -  Adobe  Illustrator 10
supports WebDAV for media asset management, allowing checkin/checkout
to a WebDAV server.

   Office XP/2000  - Microsoft provides support for WebDAV in Office
XP &amp; Office 2000 (Word, Excel, PowerPoint), via the Web Folders facility.

   GoLive
5  - Adobe provides WebDAV support for remote, collaborative,
WYSIWYG authoring of Web sites in GoLive 5 ( info &amp; screen shot ).

   XML
Client  -  Excosoft 
XML Client is an XML editor with WebDAV support, allowing remote
collaborative authoring of XML documents. 

   Nautilus  - The
 GNOME  project's file manager tool
can display views of WebDAV-enabled servers. This work is still
ongoing, but  screenshots  are available.

   Goliath 
- Presents a Mac Finder-like interface for a WebDAV repository.  The
first WebDAV client available for the Macintosh.  There is also a
 DAV
Example Application  which is a WebDAV protocol exerciser for the
Mac.  Both applications were built with  DAVLib , a publically
available DAV client library (includes SSL support, MacOS and Linux).

   WebDAV Explorer  -
Presents a graphical interface to a repository of WebDAV resources.
Written in Java, with the executable available for download,
and source code available in a publically available CVS archive.
Now compliant with RFC 2518.

   davfs  - davfs is
a Linux file system driver that allows you to map a WebDAV server as a
Linux drive, providing filesystem level compatibility with existing
applications and tools.

   cadaver 
- A command-line client for accessing WebDAV repositories, similar to
the ubiquitous FTP command-line tools.

   sitecopy  -
sitecopy copies locally stored web sites to remote DAV and FTP servers.

   Internet Explorer  - Version 5 of MSIE supports WebDAV with
its "Web Folders" feature ("File... Open, then click "Open as Web
Folder", or from the desktop, go to "Web Folders" located in
"My Computer").
   Client Libraries 

   DAV4J Client
library  (Java) -  A full-featured Java client API for the WebDAV
protocol. Provides protocol-independent (not just WebDAV) communication between
client and server applications including support for http:, rmi:, and
local access. 

   Slide client
library  (Java) - This is the  client library  developed as part of
the Apache Jakarta Slide project.

   SkunkDAV client
library  (Java) - A Java WebDAV client library (package
org.skunk.dav.client), part of the SkunkDAV project, but usable
separately.

   HTTP::DAV  (Perl) - A
Perl 5 language client library for WebDAV.  Extends the popular
libWWW-perl. Freely available, and open-source.

   Neon  (C) - A C library
supporting all WebDAV features. The foundation of the cadaver and
sitecopy clients, but usable separately.

   EZDAV
Library  (C++) - EZDAV is a WebDAV client library written for the Windows
environment. It is released under the Mozilla Public License 1.1, and
is in C++.

   DAVLib  (C++) - A publically
available DAV client library that works under MacOS and Linux, and includes SSL support.

   OLE
DB Provider for Internet Publishing (Rosebud)  (C/C++, VisualBasic)
- Microsoft's Windows-based API for accessing remote WebDAV or
FrontPage servers. Can be used with C/C++ applications using OLE DB,
or VisualBasic applications using ActiveX Data Objects (ADO).  Note:
MSDN often changes page URLs, making deep linking difficult over
time. If this link doesn't resolve, go to  MSDN  and search for "OLE
DB WebDAV" .

   davlib.py  - This
module provides client-side access to a DAV server. DAV is a protocol
This module provides full access to Class 1 services. 

   Zope WebDAV
Library  (Python) - A Python WebDAV client library. File
 client.py 
contains the client library code.

   Smalltalk
WebDAV Feature for IBM VisualAge  (Smalltalk) - A Smalltalk library
that supports threaded HTTP communication over sockets to a WebDAV
Server in a non-processor-bounding mode.

    
 
University of California, Irvine   
Jim Whitehead &lt;ejw@cse.ucsc.edu&gt;   
Department of Information and Computer Science  
247 ICS2 #3425  
Irvine , CA  92697-3425  
 
Last modified: 03 July 2003
 
</body> 