 MLPhysics Portal Index<body>
 
     
        
    	    
            
        
        
       
             Datasets 
              
               
               	       

                 Higgs to Tau Tau dataset  
                Dataset for 'Enhanced Higgs Boson to Tau Tau Search with Deep Learning'  
               
                  Jet Substructure dataset  
                Dataset for 'Jet Substructure Classification in High-Energy Physics with Deep Neural
Networks'  
              
                  HEPMASS dataset  
                Dataset for 'Parameterized Machine Learning for High-Energy Physics'  


                  HIGGS dataset  
                Dataset for 'Searching for Exotic Particles in High-Energy Physics with Deep Learning'  
               
                  SUSY (supersymmetry) dataset  
                Dataset for 'Searching for Exotic Particles in High-Energy Physics with Deep Learning'  

                  Jet Flavor dataset  
                Dataset for 'Jet Flavor Classification in High-Energy Physics with Deep Neural Networks'  
             
            
        
      
            


        
        Publications 
        
             
                   
                    
                     Relevant scientific articles published or submitted by our team.
                      If you use any data or tools from the MLPhysics Portal, please cite the appropriate article. 
                    

                   

                    
                    
                   Jet Flavor Classification in High-Energy Physics with Deep Neural Networks  
                   D. Guest, J. Collado, P. Baldi, S. Hsu, G. Urban, and D. Whiteson Physical Review D, 2016.
                   
                    

                    
                    
                   Jet Substructure Classification in High-Energy Physics with Deep Neural Networks  
                   P. Baldi, K. Bauer, C. Eng, P. Sadowski, and D. Whiteson Physical Review D, 2016.
                   
                    

                    
                    
                   Parameterized Machine Learning for High-Energy Physics  
                   P. Baldi, K. Cranmer, T. Faucett, P. Sadowski, and D. Whiteson The European Physics Journal C, 76(5), 1-7, 2016.  

                    
                    
                   Enhanced Higgs Boson to Tau Tau Search with Deep Learning  
                   P. Baldi, P. Sadowski, and D. Whiteson. Physical Review Letters, 2015.  

                    
                    
                   Deep Learning, Dark Knowledge, and Dark Matter  
                   P. Sadowski, J. Collado, D. Whiteson, P. Baldi Journal of Machine Learning Research, 2015.  

                    
                    
                   Searching for Exotic Particles in High-energy Physics with Deep Learning  
                   P. Baldi, P. Sadowski, and D. Whiteson. Nature Communications, 2014.  

                    
                    
                   Searching for Higgs Boson Decay Modes with Deep Learning  
                   P. Sadowski, D. Whiteson, P. Baldi Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2014.  

                
             
           


           

    
             
         For more info, please contact: pjsadows [at]
ics [.] uci [.] edu 
              
               University of California, Irvine  
                 
     
 

</body> 