 minor in digital information systems @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  Degrees  


     
 Minor in Digital Information Systems 

 
 

  DEGREES AVAILABLE: Minor</strong> 
 
The Bren School offers a broad range of courses for students whose primary interest is in fields other than computing.  Professionals in every field benefit from an understanding of information technology, though most do not need a mastery of the technical skills of software development and computer programming.
 
 
The minor in Digital Information Systems (DIS) recognizes students who take a body of these courses.  With a minor in DIS, you will understand the role of digital information systems in society and will learn about the technological underpinnings of these systems and constraints on their design and use.  You will be well equipped to work with computer professionals, both in organizations and personally.
 
 Is the Digital Information Systems minor for me?  
 
The Digital Information Systems minor is designed for students outside the Bren School who want to learn about information systems, computation, and digital communication without being required to learn the details of computer programming.  You live in a world of digital information systems, and whatever your interests and careers, you will benefit by understanding some of the principles underlying such systems; this understanding is achievable without the programming-oriented courses that are required of first-year majors in Computer Science, Informatics, and similar disciplines.
 
 What do I take?  
 
Students who are pursuing the minor in DIS may choose from a broad range of courses:
    
  One course chosen from:
         
  ICS 10 (How Computers Work)
             
 ICS 31 (Introduction to Programming) 
 
Either of these course options will cover the basic vocabulary and concepts of information systems and computer science. ICS 31 will also introduce you to the fundamentals of software design and construction and equip you with basic programming skills.
       
 Two courses chosen from:
        
  ICS 3 (Internet Technologies and their Social Impact)
             
 ICS 4 (Human Factors for the Web)
             
 ICS 5 (Environmental Issues in Information Technology)
             
 ICS 7 (Introducing Modern Computational Tools)
             
 ICS 8 (Practical Computer Security) 
             
 ICS 11 (The Internet and Public Policy)
             
 ICS 32 (Programming with Software Libraries) 
 IN4MATX 43 (Introduction to Software Engineering) 
 ICS 61 (Game Systems and Design) 
 
These courses introduce you to a variety of information systems, especially the Internet and the World Wide Web, which may be the largest and most interesting information systems you have been exposed to.
       
 Four courses chosen from:
         
  ICS 105 (Digital Information Systems)
             
 IN4MATX 131 (Human Computer Interaction)
             
 IN4MATX 132 (Project in Human-Computer Interaction Requirements and Evaluation) 
 IN4MATX 143 (Information Visualization)
             
 IN4MATX 148 (Project in Ubiquitous Computing) 
 IN4MATX 151 (Project Management) 
 IN4MATX 161 (Social Analysis of Computerization)
             
 IN4MATX 162W (Organizational Information Systems)
             
 IN4MATX 163 (Project in the Social and Organizational Impacts of Computing) 
 IN4MATX 171 (Introduction to Medical Informatics) 
 IN4MATX 172 (Project in Health Informatics) 
 
These courses cover a wide range of approaches to studying digital information systems, giving you the opportunity to select courses that match your own interests and career goals.
    
  What can I do with this minor?  
 
The DIS minor will make you more valuable in any job that involves working with computer professionals or with information technology.  If you will be evaluating, specifying, or purchasing computer hardware or software, the DIS minor will help you make better-informed decisions.
 
 
If you complete the DIS minor, you will be able to:
 
  understand the core concepts of computer science and information systems, in particular how information is represented in a digital format;
    
 be familiar with a variety of digital information systems that are used in business, education, government, and elsewhere;
    
 know how to evaluate digital information systems, taking into consideration technical, legal, ethical, environmental, and social concerns; and
    
 be educated about the technologies and organizational practices that enable large information systems to be designed, implemented, and successfully deployed.
 
  Still not sure?  
 
Prospective and current UCI students interested in learning more about the Bren School’s degree options are encouraged to meet with the school’s 
counselors and student ambassadors. They will help you determine which of our majors and minors best support your academic strengths and 
interests. Call our Student Affairs Office at 949-824-5156 to make an appointment. 
  ↑ Back to top  


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 