 Applicant Portfolio | MHCID ICS 

	 
		 
			 
					    
					 



					

					



					 
						
      Search for: 
     
    					 


				 
			 
		 





			 Menu 
				 Skip to content 
				    Program 
  
	  About the Program  
	  Curriculum  
	  Capstone Projects  
 
  
  People 
  
	  MHCID Faculty and Staff  
	  Industry Advisory Board  
	  Current Students  
	  Mentors  
 
  
  Admissions 
  
	  Information Sessions  
	  Admissions Overview  
	  Costs and Financial Aid  
 
  
  FAQ  
  
				
				 
								  
                

			 
	 


	 

		 
	 
		   Applicant Portfolio   	 

	 
		 

							
	 Applicant Portfolio 
		 
			 The MHCID program at UCI waives the GRE requirement for applicants who submit a qualified portfolio of their work. But what constitutes a qualified portfolio? 
 The portfolio is traditionally used in creative fields, like photography or design, to showcase an individual’s outstanding work. The MHCID applicant portfolio is similar, but is broadened to include examples from all fields of employment. What is important is that your portfolio reflects your strengths and expertise. A strong portfolio will demonstrate your ability to study at a graduate level as much or more than a good GRE score. Therefore you should include examples that demonstrate the following: 
  Strong writing skills 
 Familiarity with computers and technology 
 Strength in your current field 
  All the work that is included in the portfolio should be accompanied by a summary page that helps our review committee assess your work and the role that you played in creating it. A typical summary page might include: 
  Description of work 
 Skills that were used 
 Outcomes that resulted from completing the work 
  The level of detail in a summary page will vary depending on the work that it represents. For example, a portfolio piece such as a logo or brochure design may only need a brief summary, because the demonstrable skill is assessed visually, whereas a high performing database query might require a more in-depth explanation. 
 Not everyone will have examples of work that are easily transferable to the portfolio format. For example, a programmer may want to showcase code that they have written or a writer might want to share a published work. In this case, a summary page should include a richer, more in-depth analysis of the work. If the work is publicly visible, applicants should provide information on how to view that work. If work is private or confidential, such as a business plan, applicants may redact information as appropriate (e.g., financial details about a former employer or client). 
  Portfolio Size  
 A strong portfolio should include 4-8 individual pieces that you feel best showcase your work. This range is intentionally broad and should only be used as a guide. If you only have 2 or 3  strong  projects that you want to include, then don’t add 1 or 2 additional  weak  ones. If you have more than 10, and believe that they are all valuable examples of your skill set then include them. 
  Portfolio Format  
 Your portfolio should be formatted as either a  custom website</strong> or a  PDF</strong>. There is not currently a way to upload these materials into the applications system.  So, you will need to add a link to your portfolio in your statement of purpose. If your portfolio is a website, then simply enter the URL into the field. If you are submitting a PDF, then you should upload it to a publicly accessible location such as a cloud file sharing service (DropBox, OneDrive, Google Drive, etc.) and enter the public link to the document into the field. 
 We are working to make sure that the application system does not send you error messages if you do not include your GRE scores. This is the first time we have done this, however, and big university information systems can be tricky. If you are including a portfolio, please do not worry if you get an auto-generated message requesting GRE scores. 
 Contact student affairs for more specific questions at  mhcid@ics.uci.edu  or the faculty director at  mhciddirector@ics.uci.edu               
		 
	 

	 
	 
			
			 


				 
						   
				 

				 
						   
				 


				 
					
					    Feedback  
  Privacy Policy  
  					© 2017 UC Regents
				 

				 

					   
					   


				 

			 

		 

	 

</body> 