 undergraduate degree in software engineering @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  Degrees  


     
 Undergraduate degree in Software Engineering 

 
 

 Do you like to work in teams to develop cool new software? Are you curious to learn how the architectures of Twitter, Snapchat or Google are designed? Do you care about the quality of the software you develop? Are you not afraid of talking to people in order to learn what their needs are so you can develop better software for them? Are you a builder who might foresee having your own software company at some point? 
 If you answered yes to one or more of these questions, UC Irvine’s software engineering major just might be the choice for you. 
 What will I learn? 
 The B.S. in software engineering is designed around a set of core courses that introduce the fundamentals of software engineering (requirements analysis, design and testing), programming (data structures, libraries and languages), and relevant computer science concepts (algorithms, databases, networking and operating systems). From there, nearly two dozen electives offer students the chance to specialize, focusing anywhere from systems-level engineering to the human side of developing software. 
 Throughout the major, students gain hands-on experience in creating a variety of software systems, giving you the opportunity to use different programming languages, apply your skills to different domains and work in different teams. This culminates in the three-quarter capstone course, in which you will be part of a team that develops a real system for a real client, typically from a company or organization outside the university. 
 Overall, the major strongly emphasizes the design and implementation of software systems, as well as learning how to adapt to what are the continuous new circumstances of the profession — whether it is a new client and their habits, a new programming language or technology to be used or a new team and its development practices. 
 Careers 
 Software engineers are in demand everywhere. Large Internet companies, automotive and aerospace corporations, medical and health software providers, enterprise software vendors and startups are all in need of software engineers to program, design, architect and lead the development of their software projects.  Business Insider ,  glassdoor , CNN ( #3 ,  #7 , and  #8 ),  U.S. News &amp; World Report  all highlight the excellent career prospects for software engineers in terms of job satisfaction, job prospects and salary. 
 Of course, graduate school in software engineering, computer science, informatics, or related field is a career path that a portion of our students also choose to take after they complete the major. 
 Qualifications 
 We welcome students with a variety of backgrounds. We have had many students join who already knew how to program, and many students who did not yet know how to program. Both groups are successful in the major. 
 If you have an interest in solving problems, aspire to creative thinking, and have an affinity with design, software engineering can be for you. 
 Why software engineering at UC Irvine? 
   Excellence</strong>. You will be part of a world-class group of faculty and staff, who have an outstanding track record of delivering innovative educational experiences in — and beyond — the classroom. 
  Depth</strong>. With no fewer than ten courses dedicated to software engineering, and dozens more on topics closely surrounding it, you receive an education that prepares you very well for the many challenges that will arise in your future career. 
  Connections</strong>. Our alumni have gone on to study in some of the most prestigious Ph.D. programs, work for well-known, innovative corporations and found successful startups. We stay in touch with them, and can help connect you with for internships that complement your studies. 
  Location</strong>. Orange County has a very vibrant and diverse tech industry, and is just a mere hop away from Silicon Valley. 
  Detailed requirements 
 Please see the  catalogue  for a detailed description of the requirements of the Software Engineering major. 
 More information 

 
Prospective and current UCI students interested in learning more about the Bren School’s degree options are encouraged to meet with the school’s 
counselors and student ambassadors. They will help you determine which of our majors and minors best support your academic strengths and 
interests. Call our Student Affairs Office at 949-824-5156 to make an appointment. 



  
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 