 
	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
     
		News     
	         
		  Visitors from The Netherlands  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on April 8, 2014 at 12:00 pm 				 
					
		 Luxi and Micky are master students from the University of Amsterdam. They will spend four months with us researching how to crowdsource software design activities. Welcome! 
     
    
         
		  Tablet tower to server tower  
		 
					Posted by  lmartie  on April 1, 2014 at 3:50 pm 				 
					   
		 What do you do when you need to do a lot of parallel data processing but cloud services are just too expensive? Turn your lab’s tablets into servers, of course! 
     
    
         
		  Marian Petre visit  
		 
					Posted by  lmartie  on March 30, 2014 at 3:07 pm 				 
					
		 Our long-term collaborator Marian Petre from The Open University visited us last week. Her insights are always much appreciated and we already look forward to her next visit! 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Mengyao and John  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on February 3, 2014 at 11:36 am 				 
					
		 Mengyao is a first year Ph.D. student in Informatics. She is interested in doing research in design practice, more specifically the creative nature of it. John is a first year M.S. student in Computer Science. He is interested in doing research in software architecture, particularly the field of software as a service (SaaS). Welcome! 
     
    
         
		  New Scholarships  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on February 3, 2014 at 10:55 am 				 
					
		 Congratulations to Nick Lopez and Christian Adriano, who were recently granted the 2014 Miguel Velez scholarship. 
     
    
         
		  New workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on December 8, 2013 at 5:27 pm 				 
					
		 Thomas is co-organizing a new workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSI-SE), in conjunction with ICSE 2014. The workshop will be a one day event with invited talks, a poster and demos session, and a crowd-based working session giving participants the opportunity to explore the application of crowdsourcing to software engineering and begin to forge […] 
     
    
         
		  Paper on Calico to appear at CHI 2014!  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on December 8, 2013 at 5:21 pm 				 
					
		 Our paper, Supporting Informal Design with Interactive Whiteboards, was accepted for inclusion at CHI 2014! Hope to see you in Toronto! 
     
    
         
		  2013 ACM Distinguished Scientists  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on November 20, 2013 at 1:47 pm 				 
					
		 André was recognized as one of the 2013 ACM Distinguished Scientists. A big congratulations to André! ACM announcement 
     
    
         
		  Article published in Empirical Software Engineering Journal  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on October 1, 2013 at 11:20 am 				 
					
		 Looking to evaluate a software engineering tool in a study with developers? Check out our new ESE journal article for options, standard practices, and tradeoffs, grounded in a literature review of over 1700 software engineering papers. article 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Namrata!  
		 
					Posted by  lmartie  on September 29, 2013 at 9:44 pm 				 
					
		 We are very excited to welcome Namrata Puri to the laboratory. She is joining us as a new M.S. student and will be working on the UI of CodeExchange. 
     
    
    
		         
              « Previous Page  
              Next Page »  
              
         
                    
     
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 