 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  May 25,  2016
</strong>
 
     UCI News 
      
         Robots to the rescue</strong>
           By Brian Bell</strong>    Professor Ian Harris works with local high school and college students to design machines that can search for disaster victims in the 2016 UCI Rescue Robotics Invitational.    
                  
  
 The original story by Brian Bell was posted May 25, 2016 on the   UCI News website .


  
Sunday, May 22, was an absolutely gorgeous day to be in Aldrich Park on the University of California, Irvine campus. The sun shone brightly, and a pleasant breeze wafted through swaying trees over a lush expanse of grass. The tranquil setting would have been perfect for a picnic, but it was less than ideal for participants in the 2016 UCI Rescue Robotics Invitational.

  
Even a slight puff of wind can make it difficult for a quadcopter to navigate; light from above interferes with robots’ color sensors; and a soft, lumpy lawn presents traction issues for small wheels. It’s all part of the challenge for Rescue Robotics competitors.

  
UCI and half a dozen other colleges and high schools from around Orange County took part this year. Their goal was to create robotic systems, either ground-based or aerial, that could traverse a square field autonomously and detect “disaster victims” – in this case 5-gallon orange buckets from the local home improvement store.

  
When it was over, bragging rights went to a team from Garden Grove’s Santiago High School that fielded an aerial vehicle. Laguna Hills High School came in second with a quadcopter system, and UCI’s ground robot took third place. The invitational, in its second year, was coordinated by UCI and  Vital Link , an organization that helps local youth find rewarding educational and career opportunities.

  
With earthquakes, wildfires and mudslides, “the challenge makes sense here in Orange County. When we have a disaster, the standard way of searching for victims is to line up everyone you can get in a row and start moving forward one step at a time,” says faculty adviser Michael McCarthy, a professor of mechanical &amp; aerospace engineering. “If we could have these simple drones that go out and identify where victims are located, it could be faster and much more practical.”

  
He and his collaborators established the competition with three main requirements: The robots had to function outdoors, compensating for wind, different lighting conditions and varying terrain. They had to be able to operate with multiple units in the field at the same time. And, most importantly, they had to work without being controlled remotely by humans.

  
“Competitors are not allowed to touch or control the robots once they’re in the field,” says faculty adviser Jeffrey Krichmar, a professor of cognitive sciences. “They can manually get them in place to start, then it’s up to the robots to find the buckets. It’s a big challenge that requires a ton of programming and a lot of skill in designing and building a system to do the job.”

  
Ground units are usually constructed on a base with six wheels that “scrub steer” the way a tank maneuvers on its treads. Most include a platform for structures to support GPS units, digital cameras and microprocessors that control the trajectory of the vehicle. Many teams use an Android smartphone that bundles these functions together, thanks to clever app programing by the students.

  
The aerial robots involve a different level of complexity. Instead of a smartphone, the quadcopter drones each employ an Arduino microprocessor to help it buzz through its flight plan, snapping pictures of orange buckets and recording GPS coordinates.

  
Associate professor of computer science Ian Harris says that in addition to fielding its own teams, UCI serves as a mentoring center for other participating schools.

  
“Our job is to help them during the course of the year with training on how to build, configure and program quadcopters or ground vehicles,” he says. “We built our own systems in advance to stay ahead and be ready for any questions that might come up.”

  
UCI ground robot team member Tiffany Hwu, a graduate student in Krichmar’s  Cognitive Anteater Robotics Laboratory , says the competition is relevant to her research. “We have a good understanding of how animals represent places in the brain. They have a sense of direction, a sort of dead-reckoning system, and we have models for that,” she says. “It’s not too far of a jump to take these models of navigation and transfer them into robots.”

  
Orange’s El Modena High School, which sends teams to compete in robot battles around the country, entered two drones and one ground robot in the UCI invitational. Engineering and robotics teacher Mark Bowie says that UCI’s competition is among the most difficult his students have encountered. “Making something that’s going to smash into another robot – that’s easy. Running autonomously and getting all the components to talk to one another is really hard,” he notes.

  
McCarthy says there’s a payoff for all the hard work and a strong sense of purpose embedded in the process: “If it’s just algorithms to do simple jobs, the students get bored incredibly fast. But if the programming is to do something dramatic like control a drone that’s trying to find people ... that changes their whole view. It gives them an opportunity to show off what they’re capable of.”


  
For more photos and video of the event, click  here . 







  
   Robots to the rescue    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Ito to lead newly funded UCI project aimed at improving connected learning opportunities
              
                Next &gt; 
                 Carey receives 2016 IEEE TCDE CSEE Impact Award
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 