 untitled<body>

    UC IRVINE - ICS 125 PROJECT IN SYSTEM DESIGN 
     Assignment 1: Project Bid 
     
      Due as a Class Presentation to be scheduled beginning Jan 18 

 Assignment Requirements 

 This assignment consists of a class presentation by one or more of the team members.
Some overhead transparencies will be provided to each team. Transparencies in the final
presentation may be hand written if neatly done. Transparencies should be turned in after
the presentation. Grading is both on the content and the quality of the oral presentation. 

 Purpose and Content 

 The purpose of this exercise is to convince your client that you can effectively
complete the project they have described. Effectiveness means that you can elicit further
requirements from them and reach a mutual agreement. The project bid should convince the
hearers (primarily me) that your team has a good understanding of the problem, are
anticipating questions to elicit further requirements from the client, have a rough idea
of the process or lifecycle you will follow (remember process and lifecycle diagrams from
ICS 121), have an idea of how you will test the project (perhaps an "acceptance
test" or initial ideas about it), have an idea of the kinds of technology you will
employ, and, finally, that your team members provide a sufficient mix of skills and
experience. 

 Comments 

 Projects often begin vaguely. Clients do not have complete ideas about the work that
should be done. They may not fully anticipate their needs. Therefore your project bid will
not be exact. You will have to guess about some aspects of the project. You will have to
struggle with ambiguities and uncertainties. The point however is to demonstrate that you
have tried to understand the problem as best as possible and have begun to think about the
entire project lifecycle. 

 You should already have contacted the potential client. I will ask about this at the
presentation. Remember, it is best to select one person from the team to coordinate with
the (potential) client. 

 You might think back to ICS 121 Assignment 3: Lifecycle Considerations and Validation.  

   ICS125 WQ00 Assignments   ICS125 WQ00   David F. Redmiles Home Page   Department of Information and Computer Science   University of California, Irvine CA 92717-3425  

    
</body> 