 Directions to UCI Student Center<body>



 
  

 Parking Information and Directions to the  
UC Irvine Student Center 

If this is your first visit to the UCI campus, you should be aware that
it is not easy to figure out the campus. We recommend that you get a
 
map  with building numbers.
 
 
Parking permits are required at UCI.
  
 
If your company is an
 
IRUS sponsor ,
then    prior to the meeting   
you should obtain a preferred IRUS
parking permit from your
 
corporate representative .
 
  
Otherwise, you can purchase a permit at the Student Center parking
structure.
  
 
Plan to arrive at least 30 minutes early to ensure you get a parking
space, and to allow time to purchase a permit (non-sponsors) and
to walk to the meeting room in the Student Center.
 
  
   From North   
Take the 405 South to the Jamboree exit.   
Right onto Jamboree.   
Left onto Campus.   
Right onto  West  Peltason Drive (taking you into UCI).    
Left onto Pereira.   
Left into the first structure on your left, which is a parking
structure (parking #4 on a UCI map).    
The Student Center (building #113 on a UCI map)
is directly across the street from the parking structure.
 

 
   
 From South    
Take the 405 North to the University/Jeffrey exit.   
Left onto University (it's Jeffrey if you go right).   
Left onto Culver.   
Right onto Campus.  
Go past  East  Peltason Drive.   
Go Left onto  West  Peltason 
Drive (taking you into UCI).    
Left onto Pereira.  
Left into the first structure on your left, which is a parking structure
(parking #4 on a UCI map).   
The Student Center (building #113 on a UCI map)
is directly across the street from the parking structure.
 

  
 Parking 

  

If your company is an 
 
IRUS sponsor , then as mentioned above, you should
obtain a preferred IRUS parking permit from your 
 
corporate representative  prior to the meeting.

  

IRUS permits enable you to park in 
spaces with red AR signs in addition to unmarked spaces. Even when the 
parking structure gets filled, there are still usually red AR spaces.  
Please park in those spaces to leave the unmarked spaces free for people
who purchase permits. In the parking structure, AR spaces are on the
 first  and  lower  levels.

  

If your company is not a sponsor of IRUS, you may purchase a permit at the
parking structure. Use this permit to park in the unmarked spaces. If
the parking structure is full, the attendant will direct you to
alternate parking lots. You can purchase a permit from the attendant for
use in the other lots.

  
 Back to IRUS home page 

   
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Department of Information and Computer Science   
University of California, Irvine  
Irvine, CA 92697-3425  

</body> 