 Chimera 2.0 Tutorial:Starting the Chimera Server on the Client Side<body>
 

 Starting the Chimera Server on the Client Side 

   
Now that you have created some webs and have the Chimera Website running, 
you are now ready to start the client side
of your Chimera system.  The client applications you will use with
Chimera are dependent on a program called the Chimera Server.  This
server runs in the same environment as your 
client applications, and it provides access to Chimera.  To understand 
why the Chimera Server is in place on the client end
of the system, consider the following.
 

  Rationale for the Chimera Server  

  When you started the Chimera Website
and its associated three servers, you were providing the general
services of Chimera, in this case to yourself.  Since Chimera
is freely available, there could be a multitude of Chimera Websites
running, each providing different contents (i.e. different 
webs, links, etc.).  Further, these Chimera Websites can 
be located on a LAN or WAN, thus they could be running on different machines
or accounts than where you are.  Client applications have the potential
of being connected in arbitrary locations.  This could be problematic
if your applications are connected to different websites and webs.  These
inconsistencies can lead to a situation where your applications become 
disconnected to each other.
 

 
To control this complexity, a server is provided which provides you with
the ability to direct your client applications to particular websites 
and webs.  This server is the Chimera Server and all client applications
look for it as their conduit to Chimera.
 

 Starting the Chimera Server from different Platforms 

 
To start the Chimera Server in your user's environment you need to 
execute the program chimeraServer from 
anywhere (any directory) you wish in your account.  
The Java byte-code for the 
Chimera Server is located in the chimera.jar file which you used to
start the Chimera Website earlier in the tutorial.  
 

  You must have the following in the CLASSPATH environment variable 
so that your Java interpretor can execute the chimeraServer program.
 

   swing 1.0.1
       JSDK 1.0.1
	 
	Note: JDK 1.2 (currently in beta 3) contains JSDK and swing, you will
	not need the above two packages if you are using JDK 1.2.
       HTTPClient 0.3
       Rivendell 0.6
       MSXML 1.8

	 (see 
	 Preparing your System for Chimera  
	to see how to include the packages listed above.)
	 

       chimera2b2.jar (see
	 Downloading Chimera  
	to see how to include chimera.jar)
    Depending on what platform you are using, you will start the Chimera 
Server differently:
 

   Using Unix, enter chimeraServer to start the Chimera Server.
	   

       Using Windows NT, enter the following in the
	command line interface to start the Chimera Server.
	  java chimera.chimeraServer 

    The Chimera Server should appear as the following window.
 

   

  Note: the window will appear slightly differently on different platforms.

   
You now have the Chimera Server running for your client applications,
the next step is to establish the communication connection between
this server and the Chimera Website you are interested in.
 

</body> 