 Java Download and Installation Instructions<body>

 
 Java Download and Installation Instructions 
 
  
  

You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can
  refer to them while downloading and installing Java.
Or, just keep this document in your browser.
You should read each step completely before performing the action that it
  describes.
This document shows downloading and installing Java 8 on Windows 7 in
  Summer 2015.
You should download and install the latest Java.
  
   Java  

The following instructions were composed for installing Sun Java 1.8.0_60
  (aka Java SE Development Kit (JDK) 8, Update 60).
 The version you download may be newer. 
Note: Java is already installed as part of Mac OS X, so no further installation
  is necessary if you have recently purchased one of these machines.
You can determine whether you have the right version by typing
  
    java -version  
  
to the unix command prompt on Mac OS X;
the response should be something like  java version "1.8.0_60" ; it does
  not have to be this exact update, but it needs to be at least  "1.8..." 

  
The Java download requires about 250 MB of disk space; keep it on your machine,
  in case you need to reinstall Java.
When installed, Java requires about an additional 550 MB of disk space.
  

  Downloading 
  
  Click
     
      Java Downloads .
     
    The following page will appear in your browser.
      
       
   Click the  Accept License Agreement  radio button. 
    Click  jdk-8u60-macosx-x64.dmg  in the "Download" column.
     
    This file should start downloading into your standard download folder.
    It is about 250Mb, so it might take a few minutes to download.
      
    The file should appear as 
       
    Terminate the window browsing the Java download page.

  
   Move this file to a more permanent location, so that you can install Java
      (and reinstall it later, if necessary).

 
   
    Start the  Installing  instructions directly below.
   
   Installing 
  Double click the  jdk-8u60-macosx-x64.dmg 
      file that you just downloaded and moved.
     
    In a few seconds a pop-up window titled  JDK 8 Update 60  will
      appear.
      
       
   Double click the box icon.
     
    An  Install JDK 8 Update 60  pop-up window will appear, with
       Introduction  highlighted.
      
       
   Click the  Continue  button.
     
    An  Install JDK 8 Update 60  pop-up window will appear, with
       Installation Type  highlighted (my installation skipped
      highlighting  Destination Select ).
      
       

  
   Click the  Install  button.
     
    A pop-up window will appear, asking you to enter you password.
      
       

  
   Enter you password and click the  Install Software  button.
     
    A pop-up window will appear, with  Installation  highlighted.
    It will show a gray progress bar as the various parts of the installation
      are finished.
      
       
    When finished, a pop-up window will appear, with  Summary 
      highlighted (and  The installation was completed successfully ).
      
       

  
   Click  Close .
     
    You may close the original  Double click icon to install  window.

  
   If you can start a  terminal  window, you can test the Java
      installation by typing  java -version  in it.
    It should show.
     
       
    After seeing this message (or an error message), terminate the
       terminal  window.
    If you see a  disk drive  icon on the desktop with the name of the
      file you downloaded, you can put it in the  trash .
   
The installed files are typically stored (in OS X) in the folder
   /Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_60.jdk/Contents/Home .
This folder should contain a  bin  and  lib  folder, and some
  miscellaneous files.
 
You may now follow the instructions to download and install Python or C++
   and/or the Eclipse IDE (for Python, Java, or C++).
Note: you need to download/install Java even if you are using Eclipse only
  for Python)
  
  </body> 