 Fact Sheet<body>

 
 Fact Sheet 
 
  ICS-33: Intermediate Programming   
  
   Instructor Information 
     Instructor    Richard Pattis  
    Email     pattis@ics.uci.edu   
    AIM Handle    richardepattis  
    Office Location &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp   DBH 4062 (Bren Hall) 
    Office Phone      (949) 824-2704 (but email is better) 
    Office Hours     
     Mon   
     2:00pm - 4:00pm
     
     Tues   
     2:00pm - 4:00pm 
    
     Wed   

     2:00pm - 3:00pm
     
     Thr   
    None 
     
     Fri   
     2:00pm - 3:00pm
     Course Motto&amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp   ABC: Always Be Coding

 



     Quotes Relevant to Learning in this Class: 
    I'll encourage you to learn and point the way
    
   
  




    Rich Pattis
          
        pattis@ics.uci.edu
          
        Instructor  

    
   



 
   
   
Learning results from what the student does and thinks, and only from what
  the student does and thinks.
The teacher can advance learning only by influencing the student to learn.
  - Herbert Simon 
     

    
We don't have much time, so we don't teach them; we acquaint them with things
  that they can learn.
[Like previewing a route on a map, then sending out students to explore the terrain.]
  - Charles Leiserson 
             Staff Information 



    
   
   
   


     Sameera Ghayyur
          
	sghayyur@uci.edu
          
        TA Labs: 1 and 4  

      Hirak Kashyap
          
	 kashyaph@uci.edu
          
        TA Labs: 2 and 5  

      Sridevi Maharaj
          
	sridevi.m@uci.edu
          
        TA Labs: 3 and 6  












        
     
     



     Wilson Mai 
        Lab 1 Tutor  

      Micah Rutrough 
        Lab 2 Tutor  

      Diantao (Andy) Yu 
        Lab 3 Tutor  



        
     
     


     Zican Li 
        Lab 4 Tutor  

      Shannon Lee 
        Lab 5 Tutor  

      Edward Ayran 
        Lab 6 Tutor  


     Course Help 

 Instructor Office Hours : 
Please feel free to drop by any time during my office hours, without an
  appointment (these are  open  office hours).
If you cannot make any of these times and want to schedule an appointment at
  some other time, e-mail me to arrange one (or, if the question is small,
  just send  me e-mail asking it; also see MessageBoard forums below).
I cannot provide much debugging help if there are many students waiting to see
  me.
 

 Instructor Email :
I answer e-mail periodically throughout the day (from about 6:30am to 10:00pm).
If you have a question that would be of interest to the entire class, please
 post it on the appropriate MessageBoard Forum (see below).
  

 Instructor Online Hours : 
I will hold online evening office hours every weekday evening before our class
   meets (Monday-Thursday, 9:00pm to 10:00pm) where I am reachable by my AIM
   handle,  richardepattis .
  

 MessageBoard Forums : 
I have created a Message Board for this class and started five 
   
  MessageBoard Forums  (see below).
I prefer students ask questions on these Forums so that everyone (staff and
  other students) can see the questions and everyone can participate in
  answering the questions (and exploring the answers).
I expect students to read these Message Boards regularly to keep current on
  their discussions.
Avoid duplicate posts: before posting, first check whether another student has
  already posted on that topic.
When you do post a question,
    choose a clear, specific and descriptive tite .
    Python and Eclipse :
Ask/answer/discuss questions about the Python Programming
  Language, the Eclipse Integrated Development Environment, or how to use them
  together.
 
    Lecture Material :
Ask/answer/discuss questions about the readings and the
  materials discussed in class.
 
    Quizzes and Exams :
Ask/answer/discuss questions about the quizzes and
  exams (written and programming).
   DO NOT post solutions or any code , but feel free to ask
  about/discuss all other aspects of the quizzes and exams (including asking
  for clarification, input/output examples, etc: be specific).
 
    Programming Assignments :
Ask/answer/discuss questions about the programming assignments: specification,
  relevant Python, etc.
 DO NOT post solutions or any code , but feel free to ask
  about/discuss all other aspects of the programming assignments (including
  asking for clarification, input/output examples, etc: be specific).
 
    Find Programming Partners :
Find a programming partner. Relevant information is your Lab (partners should
  at least have labs meeting at the same time), approximate skill level (best 
  to match with someone your own level), work habits (e.g., prefer to work days,
  evenings, weekends; do/don't want to work early to get extra for early
  submissions), preferred location to work (if your dorm/home, say where that
  is), ...
  
Feel free to ask questions and answer other students' questions on these
  forums (subject to the prohibition of posting code for
   Quizzes and Exams  and   Programming Assignments ).
I will read all Forums early every morning and answer all unresolved questions.
 
In past quarters, the message board/forum mechanism have seen a good amount of
  traffic: course material has been clarified, questions have been asked and
  answered, and many interesting discussions have ensued.
But the efficacy of these discussions depends on  your  participation.
If the need for other forums arise, I will create them: feel free to suggest
  other forums to me.

  
 Course Email :
The instructor, staff, and all students registered for the course can send
  email to everyone else by emailing the address
   ics33-W17@classes.uci.edu .
All messages sent via this email address will be archived on the
     
  Email Archive 
As the instructor, I will frequently use this mechanism to broadcast timely
  information to all the students.
Students should use this email address more selectively: mostly you should be
  using the forums mentioned above to ask questions, so all students can see
  your questions/comments and participate in the discussion.
One reasonable student use of this email list is to send email if Checkmate
  (the program submission system) appears to be down; by sending class email on
  this topic, I will learn about the problem and everyone will know I know
  about the problem.
In such a case (when I bring Checkmate back up), I'll send a follow-up email
  message to everyone.
  

Finally, remember to read the
   Announcements 
  link daily, on the course web; I tend to post long-lived information here,
  rather than via the forums or email.
  
     Lecture/Lab Meeting Places and Times 
      Lecture/Lab(s)  
 Staff 
 Classroom 
 Days 
 Start 
 Stop 
      Lecture A  
 Rich Pattis 
 EH 1200 
 MWF 
  1:00 pm 
  1:50 pm 



    Lab 1  
 Sameera Ghayyur 
 ICS 183 
 TuTh 
 10:00 am 
 11:50 am 

    Lab 2  
 Hirak Kashyap 
 ICS 189 
 TuTh 
 10:00 am 
 11:50 am 

    Lab 3  
 Sridevi Maharaj 
 ICS 192 
 TuTh 
 10:00 am 
 11:50 am 

    Lab 4  
 Sameera Ghayyur 
 ICS 183 
 TuTh 
 12:00 pm 
  1:50 pm 

    Lab 5  
 Hirak Kashyap 
 ICS 189 
 TuTh 
 12:00 pm 
  1:50 pm 

    Lab 6  
 Sridevi Maharaj 
 ICS 192 
 TuTh 
 12:00 pm 
  1:50 pm 


    

It is well known (but often underappreciated) fact that consistent attendence
  of lectures/lab is strongly correlated with good course performance;
  therefore, I expect all my students to attend lectures and labs regularly.
Plan on arriving punctually -I may make important announcements at the start of
  a lecture- paying attention, and treating your classmates with respect.
  
If you do miss a lecture, your first point of contact should be other students
  who attended the lecture to determine what you missed and how you can catch up
  (see the course web too).
One of the most "bewildering" questions faculty hear is,
  "I missed lecture yesterday; did you say or do anything important?"
  

    Bottom Line
As a lecturer at UCI, my primary responsiblity is teaching; my primary
  activities are preparing course materials, teaching in class, interacting
  with students (in class, during [online] office hours, on MessageBoard
  Forums) and grading.
  

     </body> 