 undergraduate student policies @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  policies  


     
 Undergraduate student policies 

 
 

 Most of the rules and regulations that govern students at UCI can be found in the   UCI General Catalogue</strong> .  
 However, there are other policies, listed below, which you should be familiar. 
 Bren School  Policies 
   Academic Honesty  
   Account Allocation  
   Applying for Part-Time Status  
   Backups  
   Copyright Infringement  
   Course Add/Drop/Change of Grading Option Deadlines  
    Course Repetition  
   Ethical Use of Computing   
   Instructional Computing Use  
   Lower-division coursework taken elsewhere after matriculation to UCI  
   Readmission  
   Remote Access 
 
   Second baccalaureate for Computer Science 
 
   Second baccalaureate  for Informatics  
   Second baccalaureate for CSE  
   UCI Policies</strong> 
   Academic Senate Policies on Academic Honesty  
   Computer Use  
   Electronic Mail  
   Sexual Harassment  
   Student Responsibilities  
   UC Electronic Mail  
        
 Academic Honesty 
 The general policies on academic misconduct as outlined in the   UCI Academic Senate Policies on Academic Honesty</strong>  apply within the Bren School.  
 A copy of this text may be found in  the UCI General Catalogue:  Academic Honesty Policy     
 These policies suffice for much of our work, including examinations and written assignments. However, they do not deal explicitly with course work involving computers; thus the policies must be extended to cover those cases.  
  Definition of Academic Honesty</strong> 
   </strong> The decision as to whether a student cheated depends on the intent of an assignment, the ground rules specified by the instructor and the behavior of the student. Two guidelines help an instructor decide if cheating has occurred:  
  Program plagiarism will be suspected if an assignment that calls for independent development and implementation of a program results in two or more solutions so similar that one can be converted to another by a mechanical transformation.  
 Cheating will be suspected if a student who was to complete an assignment independently cannot explain both the intricacies of his or her solution and the techniques used to generate that solution.  
  It is unreasonable to expect a complete definition of cheating; each case is important enough to be given careful, individual scrutiny.  
 It is, however, helpful to have guidelines and precedents. Here are some examples of cases which are clearly cheating and clearly not cheating.  
    Academically Honest </strong>  
  Turning in work done alone with the help of the course's staff.  
 Submission of one assignment for a group of students if group work is explicitly permitted (or required).  
 Getting or giving help on how to operate the computer or terminal.  
 Getting or giving help on how to eliminate minor syntax errors.  
 High-level discussion of course material for better understanding.  
 Discussion of assignments to understand what is being asked for.  
     Not Academically Honest </strong>  
  Turning in some else's work as your own (with or without his or her knowledge). Turning in a completely duplicated assignment is a flagrant offense, but even copying only a portion of the assignment and turning it in as your own is considered cheating.  
 Allowing someone else to turn in your work as his or her own.  
 Several people writing one program and turning in multiple copies, all represented (implicitly or explicitly) as individual work.  
 Using any part of some else's work without proper acknowledgement.  
 Stealing an examination or a solution from the instructor. This is an extremely flagrant offense.  
   Penalties</strong> The procedures that are followed and the sanctions that may be imposed for an incident of academic dishonesty are outlined in the UCI Academic Senate Policies on Academic Honesty.  
  Non-Bren School majors should be aware that an incident of academic dishonesty is sufficient to cause denial of a petition to change major into the Bren School.  
  Bren School majors should be aware that an incident of academic dishonesty may be sufficient to cause denial of admission into the Bren School Honors Program.  
  All students should be aware that a recorded incident of academic dishonesty may disqualify them for consideration for honors at graduation.  
  All students should also be aware that a first incident of academic dishonesty (if egregious) may be sufficient to cause suspension or dismissal from the University and that a second incident likely will result in such a penalty.  
   In the event that an instructor writes a letter accusing a student of academic dishonesty, the student may prepare a statement giving his/her side of the case for inclusion in the student's file.   
   ↑ Back to top   
      
 Account Allocation 
  GENERAL ACCOUNT INFORMATION</strong>  
 Most computing in the Bren School is done on either UNIX based Sun workstations or on Windows based PCs. These machines have various uses -- research, departmental administration, undergraduate instruction, graduate instruction -- but all are networked together and share a common file space.  
 In particular, no matter which departmental computer you use, either Windows or Sun, you will use the same account with the same home directory.  
  All Bren School majors receive both UNIX and Windows accounts. Non-major students receive accounts only if the  Bren School course they are enrolled in requires an account on a particular platform.  
 There are directions for activating instructional accounts on-line at   Activating Instructional Accounts  and in the CS 364 lab.  
  Bren School majors and other students enrolled in certain Bren School courses have access to a variety of computers in several labs.  
 These machines allow you to: read and send e-mail, read announcements for your classes through newsgroups, and complete classwork programming assignments.  
 Unless you are involved in research, these computers in the instructional labs are the only machines you will be able to use.  
 If you do become involved in research with a faculty member she may decide to give you access to her machines.  
 You can check out the  Lab Hour  and  Lab Equipment  for more information. 
    Expiration</strong> - Expiration dates for accounts are taken from enrollment data provided by the Registrar. When an account is about to expire, an automated email notice is sent.   
                  In the normal course of events, if you are a Bren School major your account will be automatically extended and you will never see such messages.   
                  Non-Bren School majors will receive these messages as their accounts are opened and closed each quarter depending on course enrollment. If you continue to enroll in a Bren School course, your account will reactivate automatically.  
                  If the Registrar does not list you, or you fail to enroll on time, you will be sent one of these notices. If you receive a notice in error, contact   helpdesk@ics.uci.edu . 
    Quotas</strong> - Your quota is the amount of disk space you are allowed to use.   
                  Undergraduate students get a quota of 100 MB. For information on how to check your quota, please see  Account Quota . 
    Please Note</strong> - When contacting support, please include your Bren School login and student ID number to facilitate the processing of your request.   
                  Also, If you change your name or student ID number, you need to notify   helpdesk@ics.uci.edu .   
                  Otherwise, your account may be automatically locked or your quota removed because of the way the registrar's system works.  
  For general information about what support offers undergraduate students see   Student Information .  
  ↑ Back to top   
       
 Applying for Part-Time Status 
  You are eligible for part-time status if: </strong> 
 You are working 30 or more hours a week (requires documentation), or have health problems, or family responsibilities. Please see the Registrar's policy regarding  Part-Time Status  
 The form  Petition for Reduced Fee Part-Time Study 
                                                		Program  can be picked up at at the Registrar's Office or academic advising office or the ICS Student Affairs Office. 
 Signed part-time petitions must be processed by the Registrar’s Office no later than Friday of the 3rd week of classes- there are no exceptions to this policy. 
   ↑ Back to top   
       
 Backups 
 Any data on the Bren School network filer TRON have the snapshot ability available for  self restore . Snapshots retain data for 30 days. 
 To request something be restored from backups,  please contact computing support . 
   ↑ Back to top   
       
 Copyright Infringement 
 It is illegal to distribute copyrighted materials -- such as software, movies, music, pictures -- without proper authorization.  
 If a complaint of copyright infringement is reported involving a computer assigned to a Bren School student, the student's account will be locked out until Bren School support personnel have a chance to investigate the allegations.  
 If copyrighted materials are found, they will be removed immediately. 
 For the initial complaint (first violation), the Bren School Student Affairs Office (SAO) staff and the appropriate Associate Dean (as well as the academic advisor, for grad students) will be notified.  
 The student will be required to meet in person with appropriate SAO staff to review applicable campus policies, and to sign a statement verifying receipt and notice of such policies.  
 This signed statement will become part of the student's file. 
 For any subsequent complaints, the appropriate Associate Dean, academic advisor (for graduate students) and SAO staff will be notified.  
 The student will then be referred to the campus Director of Student Judicial Affairs, for academic suspension (upon 2nd violation) or expulsion from the university(upon 3rd violation). 
  The above statement is based upon: 
                UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA POLICIES APPLYING TO CAMPUS ACTIVITIES, ORGANIZATIONS AND STUDENTS, UCI CAMPUS IMPLEMENTATION 
                August 1996, APPENDIX K: 
                Computer Use Policy (Reference to Section 102.05), which includes "Violating the terms of applicable software licensing agreements or copyright laws."  
 Please see the most current  UCI Copyright Information . 
     
   ↑ Back to top   
       
 Course Repetition 
  Students who have failed a course twice must meet with the Associate Dean for Student Affairs to get advance permission to enroll for the 3rd time.  
 Those who enroll in the course but fail to meet with the Associate Dean will be dropped from the course by end of week 1.  
  Be aware that this course drop may impact other areas (e.g. financial aid, housing, immigration status), so please plan accordingly.  
  Contact the ICS SAO office to make an appointment with the Associate Dean. 
    ↑ Back to top   
       
 Ethical Use of Computing 
 Introduction 
  As a student you are probably aware of certain ethical responsibilities you have, such as honesty in doing classwork. Another area in which you have important ethical responsibilities is in your use of computing resources. This document describes some of these responsibilities and explains Bren School Department policy on student use of computing resources. Some of these policies might be different from what you would expect, so please read over and understand this document.  
  The Bren School provides for you, the student, a wide range of computing resources from X-Terminals to PC's to large multiuser UNIX systems. These machines are expensive to buy and expensive to maintain, but it is our goal to provide you with the very best computing environment that we can. Many users depend on these computers for doing class assignments, research, and for communications. We are a community of computer users, and like any community we can all make the best use of our resources if we establish some guidelines for how we can use them responsibly.  
  Some computing facilities, such as those which hold classified data, may establish expensive and complex security systems In our department we do not do this; we have some security mechanisms which greatly decrease the risk that one user will accidentally interfere with another, but it does not require great ingenuity to get around these mechanisms. As a result, we need to trust the people who use our machines.  
  The fundamental principle behind our policies is this: While using the computers, you should never do anything that harms another user or prevents him or her from getting work done.  
  If you have any questions about these rules, or if you suspect that an account (your or someone else's) has been broken into, please contact the Bren School Computing Support Group. To do this, send mail to the address   helpdesk@ics.uci.edu , or go to Support's office, CS346, and explain the problem. 
 Computer Accounts 
  The Bren School has a wide range of computers available, located in several different labs. Some of these labs are open only to people enrolled in certain classes, some are available for general drop-in use. Each Bren School major is given both a Windows account, and a UNIX account on the Sun workstations. Different courses will require different platforms to be used. Non-majors will be given accounts only if required for a course in which they are enrolled.  
  All Bren School computers are to be used only by Bren School students, faculty, and staff. People outside the Bren School who wish to use computers should go see the people in the  Office of Information Technology  ( Multipurpose Science and Technology Building (Building 415 - 2nd
 Floor)). They provide computing for non-Bren School people.  
  Any computer account created for you remains the property of the Regents of the University of California. You are responsible for this account, and you may not allow any other person to use it. The primary purpose of your account is to allow you to carry out your computing assignments and other instructional activities. You may also make modest use of these resources for other purposes, such as sending electronic mail to friends on campus, reading the electronic bulletin boards, and playing games, provided that this usage does not significantly interfere with instructional use of the machines.  
  An example of how one might "significantly interfere" would be to tie up a computer for game-playing when no other computers are free and someone else is waiting to use the computer to do an assignment. If you have a game or other program you would like to make available to other users, please give it to the system administrator for public installation (You can contact the system administrator by sending mail to   helpdesk@ics.uci.edu ). You may not use the machines for commercial purposes, such as preparing bills for your company or advertising products, or for work related to non-UCI organizations, such as an off-campus political or religious group. More details about this are given below. If you are in doubt about whether some use of the machines is allowed, ask the Support Group. 
 Ethical Behavior 
  Here is a list of some examples of activities that the department does not allow. If a student makes such unethical use of Bren School computers, he/she will be subject to the penalties described in the   Disciplinary Procedures  section. 
   You may not introduce viruses, worms, Trojan horses, password cracking or login spoofing programs on any University computer or network. In fact, because of the serious damage such programs can cause, the Bren School faculty have adopted a policy which forbids students even to have these types of programs in their accounts or to place them onto any Bren School computer; you may not store such a program on a Bren School computer even if you only wish to study it. 
   You may not try to use equipment or accounts that have not been assigned to you. 
   You may not interfere with others' ability to make use of the resources. For example, it might be reasonable to lock a workstation if you need to leave the room for two or three minutes, but it is not reasonable to lock it while you leave to buy lunch. Another example would be doing something that ties up all or a significant fraction of the machine, thus preventing others from receiving their fair share. 
   You may not destroy other people's work. 
   You may not "spy" on people, that is, you may not attempt to gain information from their accounts or from their external drives when there is good reason to believe that they do not wish you to obtain that information. This includes both attempting to violate the protection facilities provided by the system and also taking deliberate advantage of someone else's failure to protect sensitive information on their account. This works both ways; faculty, staff and members of Computing Support also have the responsibility to respect the privacy of the student. For example, it would be unethical for a faculty member or Support Group member to browse through your personal messages just out of curiosity, even if they have a security level that allows them to do so; we agree to respect your privacy. We do, however retain the right to inspect material on your account when this is necessary to investigate a suspected violation of university rules, such as a cheating incident or a violation of the rules in this document. 
   You may not send mail that appears to come from someone else. 
   You may not advertise any commercial products or use your account to earn money. Non-commercial things like posting your used car advertisement on   ics.market  are permitted, though. If for some reason you need an account that can be used for commercial purposes, see the Office of Academic Computing. 
   You may not display offensive material in any publicly accessible area. There are materials available on the Internet and elsewhere that some members of the Bren School community will find offensive. (One example is sexually explicit graphics; another is political argument on such issues as abortion.) Bren School and the University are committed to maintaining the free and open exchange of ideas as well as a non-offensive working environment. Thus, Bren School does not restrict the availability of potentially offensive material, but Bren School does regard as unethical conduct the display of such material in any publicly accessible area, including on workstation screens in public rooms and in computer labs. 
   You may  not</strong> use the computers' printers as copying machines. For example, you may not print out one hundred copies of a report; instead, print out one copy of the report and use a copying machine to obtain the other 99. 
   You may not use Bren School resources to illegally distribute copyrighted material. 
    Disciplinary Procedures 
  What happens if you violate any of these rules? It depends on the seriousness of the offense, but could be one or more of the following. Disciplinary procedures and sanctions will be consistent with those outlined in the UCI Implementation of ``Interim Policies and Procedures Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations, and Students, Part A.'' 
   You may have to meet with the chair of the Computing Resources Committee (CRC), the Dean of the Bren School, or the manager of the Bren School Support Group to discuss abuse of computing resources.
 
   Your account may be locked. (Again, we recognize an obligation to respect your rights as well. No student account will be locked without discussion and approval of the Dean of the Bren School, or the chair of the CRC, except in the case of security violations. It would not be ethical for us to lock your account capriciously; for example, we agree not to lock it simply because you send a message to a bboard expressing disagreement with some Department policy or action.)
 
   For minor infractions, some form of departmental services (e.g., cleaning a lab) may be requested in exchange for unlocking the account.
 
   For offenses involving abusing computing resources, cheating on course related work, or preventing others from working on assignments, your grade may be lowered in the class or you may receive a failing grade.
 
   For severe offenses, or repeating minor offenses, you may lose access to all Bren School computing facilities for a period of time. Access to computing can be denied for a limited time (e.g., one week, the remainder of the quarter, an entire quarter) or permanently.
 
   You may be suspended or dismissed from the University.
 
   In serious cases, your name and a description of the violation may be reported to the police. California Penal Code Section 502 makes certain computer abuses a crime, and penalties can range up to a $10,000 fine and up to three years in prison. 
  Good Citizenship 
  Your cooperation in the following areas will help us make efficient use of the computing resources and will avoid unnecessary impositions on the time of faculty, staff, and other students. These are not the sort of things which we can expect to enforce rigidly; rather, we are asking your cooperation for the benefit of the whole departmental community Violations of these guidelines would not ordinarily result in any of the penalties listed above beyond number one, unless they were especially flagrant or persist after faculty or staff have asked you to stop.  
  1. Please be careful not to use the computer to annoy people, for example by sending them messages which they do not wish to receive. (The mail system makes it rather easy to send a message to a very large group of people; please be responsible in your use of this capability. In particular, when you reply to a message sent to a large group, avoid cc'ing your reply to the entire group unless it is a matter of interest to them.)  
  2. Please do not waste anything (i.e., paper, disk space, CPU time, people time, etc.). Please put your old printouts in the recycling bins.  
  Acknowledgments</strong>  
  Some of these polices are adapted from those used by the UCLA CS Department. They adapted some of their polices from Columbia University and the California Institute of Technology.  
   ↑ Back to top   
       
 Remote Access 
  Computer systems maintained by the both the UCI Office of Information Technology and Bren School computing support accept connections only from systems which have ther names correctly registered in Domain Name System (DNS). See  OIT's Limitation of Services to non-registered hosts  for more details on this policy.  
  For security reasons, Bren School systems always reject connections from remote hosts which do not have matching forward and reverse DNS entries. If you are having trouble telnet'ing or ftp'ing to a Bren School system while away from UCI this may be the cause of the problem.  
    ↑ Back to top   
       
 University of California Policy on Sexual Harassment 
 Effective December 14, 2004, the Office of the President issued a revised University of California Policy on Sexual Harassment and associated Procedures for Responding to Reports of Sexual Harassment.  
 They cover all members of the University community, including faculty and other academic personnel, staff employees, students, and non-student or non-employee participants in University programs. 
 Revisions to the policy include an updated definition of sexual harassment, clarification of the University's obligation to respond promptly and effectively to reports of sexual harassment, provisions for training employees and educating the University community regarding sexual harassment, and a statement that the policy shall be implemented in a manner that recognizes principles of free speech and academic freedom. 
 The Office of Equal Opportunity and Diversity has developed local policy and guidelines that implement the systemwide procedures and address consensual relationships. These supersede the previous UCI Policy on Sexual Harassment: 
 Section 700-17: Guidelines for Sexual Harassment Complaint Resolution  http://www.policies.uci.edu/adm/procs/700/700-17.html  
 Section 700-16: Policy on Conflicts of Interest Created by Consensual Relationships  http://www.policies.uci.edu/adm/pols/700-16.html  
 The University of California Policy on Sexual Harassment can be found at   http://www.ucop.edu/ucophome/ 
                    coordrev/policy/PP121404policy.pdf  
 All documents can be accessed through the Sexual Harassment Officer website at  www.sho.uci.edu  
   ↑ Back to top   
       
 Student Responsibilities 
   Transcripts</strong>  
   You are responsible for checking your transcript and/or grades every quarter.  
 A hard copy of your transcript is available free at the Registrar's Office a few weeks after the quarter ends.  
 Grades are available online at  http://www.reg.uci.edu/access/student/welcome/  approximately one week after finals.  
 PLEASE CHECK YOUR TRANSCRIPT CAREFULLY EACH QUARTER.  
 If there are problems, investigate and correct the situation promptly, as most changes must be made within one quarter.  
    Repeating Classes</strong>    
  
                If you repeat a class you will not receive grade credit for it again unless it has been approved as a course you can repeat. For example, dance classes are not repeatable. Check the catalog or the student affairs office in that unit to see if a course is repeatable. 
 
  Courses in which you received a C- or below are repeatable to remove a deficient grade. If you took a course for a grade you must repeat it for a grade. For the first 16 units repeated the old grade stays on your transcript but only the new grade is computed in your grade point average. Please visit the UCI General Catalogue for more information on repition of courses.  
    Graduation</strong>    
  
                   Graduation is not automatic.  You must file an application which is available on-line at  http://www.reg.uci.edu/access/student/welcome/ .  
 If you plan to graduate, applications are due by the end of the tenth week of classes ONE (1) quarter before you intend to graduate.  
    Catalogue</strong>  
   You are responsible for knowing and understanding the information contained in the catalogue. 
    ↑ Back to top  


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 