 News | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems 
 
		   

			  Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  
			 Bren School of Information and Computer Science 			
			 University of California, Irvine 
			  
		   
			  Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  
			 University of California, Irvine 
		 Menu 
			  Skip to content  

			    Home  
  About CML 
   About us  
	  News  
	  Contact Us  
  
  People 
   Faculty  
	  Alumni  
  
  Events &amp; Seminars 
   AI/ML Seminar Series  
	  ML Reading Group  
  
  Education &amp; Resources 
   Courses  
	  Books  
  
  UCI Machine Learning Archive  
  Sponsors &amp; Funding  
  Subscribe to CML List  
  		 

		
			 
					 News 				 
							  PhD Research Fellowships  				 Standard 			 
		 The Computer Science department at UC Irvine is seeking applicants for PhD research fellowships in artificial intelligence, machine learning, and their related applications, including topics such as deep learning, statistical learning, graphical models, information extraction, computer vision, high-dimensional data analysis, and more. 
 Please see  this flier  for more information. 
			 
	
	 November 18, 2016 		
		
			  MidCareer Faculty Positions at UC Irvine  				 Standard 			 
		 MidCareer Faculty Positions at UC Irvine 
 Application deadline: Dec 9th 2016  (Applications received by November 9, 2016 will receive fullest consideration.) 
 Apply online at:   https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF03719  
 The University of California, Irvine (UCI) is engaged in a multi-year campuswide strategic expansion and seeks to hire midcareer faculty (advanced assistant, tenured associate, to early full professors) in the area of information and computer sciences who have distinguished publication records and upward trajectories in their research profiles.   
 Qualified applicants with interests in artificial intelligence, computer vision, machine learning, natural language processing, bioinformatics and related topics are encouraged to apply for these positions. UCI has a very active group of faculty in these areas including Anima Anandkumar, Pierre Baldi, Rina Dechter, Charless Fowlkes, Alex Ihler, Rick Lathrop, Eric Mjolsness, Sameer Singh, Padhraic Smyth, Erik Sudderth, and Xiaohui Xie – primarily in the computer science department, with strong interdisciplinary connections to departments such as cognitive science, informatics, and statistics.  
 Recently celebrating its 50th anniversary, UCI is part of the premier public university system in the world. It was recently named by U.S. News &amp; World Report as a top ten public university and by the New York Times as No. 1 among U.S. universities that do the most for low-income students. UCI is located in one of the world’s safest and most economically vibrant communities and is Orange County’s second-largest employer, contributing $4.8 billion annually to the local economy. 
 The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy.  
			 
	
	 October 28, 2016 		
		
			  Workshop On Interacting with Robots Through Touch  				 Standard 			 
		 Center affiliate Prof. Jeff Krichmar is co-organizing a workshop on “Interacting with Robots Through Touch” at UC Irvine on September 13, 2016: 
 Workshop On Interacting with Robots Through Touch at UC Irvine 
September 13, 2016 
9AM – 6PM 
1517 Social and Behavioral Sciences Gateway, University of California, Irvine. 
 Register at:  http://www.socsci.uci.edu/~jkrichma/haptics_workshop.html  
 Description: 
Robots and autonomous systems are increasingly becoming a part of our everyday life. In particular co-Robots, in which robots have a symbiotic relationship with people, have the potential to increase social well-being and open up new socioeconomic opportunities. For example, Human-Robot Interaction (HRI), co-Robotics, and Socially Assistive Robots (SARs) are increasingly being used for entertainment, education, telepresence, rehabilitation and therapy. SARs have the potential to help children with developmental disorders, such as autism or attention deficit disorders. Social robots can act as digital ethnographers by: automatically detecting what robot-generated activities children enjoy most, monitoring development of social structure within the classroom. To date, most of these co-robots focus on eye contact (e.g., shared attention, shared gaze, etc.) and auditory cues (e.g., catch phrases and music), but tend to neglect other sensory systems important for social behavior,! 
  such as tactile interaction. 
 The purpose of this workshop is to explore the use of tactile sensing in HRI and SARs. The day will include talks by invited speakers and a poster session. If you are interested in presenting a poster on this topic, send your abstract to: jkrichma@uci.edu 
 Confirmed Speakers: 
   Andrea Chiba, University of California, San Diego
   Deborah Forster, University of California, San Diego
   William Harwin, University of Reading
   Guy Hoffman, Cornell University
   Jeffrey L. Krichmar, University of California, Irvine
   Francis McGlone, Liverpool JM University
   David J. Reinkensmeyer, University of California, Irvine
   Veronica J. Santos, University of California, Los Angeles
   Michael Tolley, University of California, San Diego
   
	
	 August 10, 2016 		
		
			  Southern California Machine Learning Symposium  				 Standard 			 
		 On Friday, May 20 2016, UC Irvine will host the Southern California Machine Learning Symposium at CalIT2.  The event is co-sponsored by CML, IGB, and the UCI Data Science Initiative.  Speakers include: 
   Sanjoy Dasgupta, UC San Diego
   Michael Jordan, UC Berkeley
   Tomaso Poggio, MIT
   Vladimir Vapnik, Columbia University &amp; Facebook
   Anima Anandkumar, UC Irvine
   Fei Sha, UCLA
   Kevin Murphy, Google
   Pietro Perona, Caltech
   Pierre Baldi, UC Irvine
   You can register online at:  www.bit.ly/ML2016 . 
 For additional information, see  the event poster . 
			 
	
	 March 14, 2016 		
		
			  Anandkumar receives Google Research Award  				 Standard 			 
		 Center member Anima Anandkumar was awarded a Google Research award grant for Fall 2015.  Google Research Awards are an “annual open call for proposals on computer science and related topics including machine learning, speech recognition, natural language processing, and computational neuroscience.”  Awards are highly competitive, with 151 projects funded of 950 proposals.  Grants include funding for a graduate student, and provide opportunities for students and faculty to collaborate directly with researchers at Google.  For more information, see  the Google Research Blog . 
			 
	
	 February 17, 2016 		
		
			  Stern to help lead national effort to improve criminal evidence analysis, cut wrongful convictions  				 Standard 			 
		 Center member Hal Stern, dean of the Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences and professor of statistics, will help lead a new national Forensic Science Center of Excellence. Aimed at improving criminal evidence analysis and reducing wrongful convictions, it will be funded by a five-year, $20 million grant from the National Institute of Standards &amp; Technology. The campus will receive about $4 million, to be used by ICS and social ecology faculty and students. “UC Irvine is honored to be a part of this. There is a critical need to advance the scientific underpinnings for the analysis of forensic evidence – including fingerprints, firearms, marks left by tools, and documents – and to ensure that participants in the law enforcement process have a strong understanding of proper analyses and interpretation,” said Stern, who is principal investigator for UCI. The center, headquartered at Iowa State University, also will partner with Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Virginia. It will incorporate both a research agenda – developing new probabilistic methods and statistical tools – and education to ensure that judges, lawyers and investigators can effectively utilize the results of forensic analyses. For more information, see  here . 
			 
	
	 May 25, 2015 		
		
			  Ihler gives short course on approximate inference at MLSS  				 Standard 			 
		 Center Director Alexander Ihler gave a half-day course on approximate inference in graphical models as part of the  2015 Machine Learning Summer School  in Sydney Australia.   MLSS  is a long-running series of summer schools around the world for graduate students and researchers who want to apply machine learning methods to their research problems.  His lecture is available online  here . 
			 
	
	 February 28, 2015 		
		
			  Anandkumar receives AFOSR Young Investigator Award  				 Standard 			 
		 Center member Prof. Anima Anandkumar received a 3-year grant,  Learning Mixed Membership Community Models: A Statistical and a Computational Framework , from the Air Force Office of Scientific Research, as part of its  Young Investigator Research Program .  The YIP is open to scientists and engineers who received their Ph.D. within the last five years, and show exceptional ability and promise for conducting basic research. Its objective is to foster creative basic research in science and engineering, enhance early career development of outstanding young investigators, and increase opportunities for the young investigators to recognize the Air Force mission and the related challenges in science and engineering. 
			 
	
	 January 22, 2015 		
		
			  Mjolsness named American Association for the Advancement of Science fellow  				 Standard 			 
		 Center member and Professor of Computer Science Eric Mjolsness has been been made a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science for his distinguished contributions to the fields of computer science and biology, particularly for new computational models of gene regulation (networks of genes that turn each other on, off or partly on) and resulting technologies. For more details, see  here . 
			 
	
	 November 25, 2014 		
		
			  Baldi, Kobsa, Mark receive Google Faculty Research Awards  				 Standard 			 
		 Three ICS professors have received a Google Faculty Research Award as part of Google’s biannual open call for proposals in computer science, engineering and related fields. Computer science Chancellor’s Professor Pierre Baldi, informatics and computer science professor Alfred Kobsa and informatics professor Gloria Mark join several other ICS faculty who have received the award in recent years.  Read more  
			 
	
	 September 1, 2014 		
		
			 Posts navigation 
		 

						   ‹  Older posts   
			
			
		 
	 
	 
				
		 Search 
		
 

 

 (c) 2015  Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems 
	  
				 WordPress / BonPress 
	 
</body> 