 adlJournal<body>
  ADL-driven Software Toolkit Generation for Architectural Exploration of Programmable SOCs
 
  
   

  
  Prabhat Mishra  ,
  Aviral Shrivastava  , and 
  Nikil Dutt  
 

   ACM TODAES:   ACM Transactions on Design Automation of Electronic Systems 
 

   Abstract:  
The increasing complexity of system functionality and advances in
semiconductor technology have resulted in system implementations using
programmable Systems-on-Chips (SOCs). Furthermore as the software
content of such SOCs dominates the design process, there is a critical
need to support exploration and evaluation of different architectural
configurations. The increasing software content coupled with
decreasing time-to-market create a critical need for automated
software generation tools to increase designer
productivity. Traditional hardware-software codesign flows do not
support necessary exploration and customization of the embedded
processors. However the inherently application specific nature of the
embedded processors and the stringent area, power and performance
constraints in embedded systems design critically require fast and
automated architecture exploration methodology. Architecture
Description Language (ADL)-driven design space exploration and
software toolkit generation strategies have become popular
recently. This approach provides a systematic mechanism for a top-down
design and validation framework, which  is very important to develop
complex systems. The heart of this approach lies in the ability to
automatically generate software toolkit including a
architecture-sensitive compiler, a cycle accurate simulator,
assembler, debugger, and verification/validation tools. This paper
presents a software toolkit generation methodology using the
EXPRESSION ADL. Our exploration studies demonstrate the need and
usefulness of this approach in compiler-in-the-loop design space
exploration of reduced instruction-set architectures.
  


      
      Center For Embedded Computer Systems,  
      Department of Information and Computer Science, 
      University of California, Irvine.
       
       </body> 