 Sustainable Polycultures at UCI 

    
     
             
                
                 
                         UCI  Polycultures
                 
             

            
             
                  
                          
                     
                     
                         About 
                     
                     
                         Database 
                     
                     
                         Composer 
                     
                     
                         Contact 
                     
                  
            
         
        
     
             
                 
                     
                         Sustainable Polycultures 
                         Growing resources sustainably and building community. A UCI Informatics Project. 
                         
                              
                         
                     
                 
             
         
     
             
                 About the project 
                 The Sustainable Polyculture project at UCI aims to help people in Southern California design sustainable polycultures for personal use. A sustainable polyculture is a mutually dependent group of perennial and self-seeding annual plants designed to thrive with little or no external inputs and provide significant amounts of human resources. 
                 We are working with local community members, including Eco-apprentices of  The Ecology Center  in San Juan Capistrano, and Agroecology researchers to identify what novice growers need to design and grow sustainable polycultures for personal use. In this pursuit, we have engaged community members in building a sustainable polyculture at our demonstration site at the  UCI Arboretum . 
                 We have found that support of Information Technology would help novices understand, organize and visualize the complex relationships among plants that must be formed to create a sustainable polyculture. We are building a comprehensive database of plants suitable for this application in Southern California and a design tool called the Sustainable Polyculture Composer. 
                 This work is managed by UCI Ph.D. Student Juliet Norton and Professor Bill Tomlinson in partnership with Professor Don Patterson at Westmont College and Professor Sarah Taylor Lovell at University of Illinois Urbana-Champagne. This research is funded by the National Science Foundation  Award # 14442749 . 
             
         
     
             
                 
                    
                 
             
         
     
             
                Demonstration site at the UCI Arboretum 
                With the help of community members, on campus organizations, and independent students, we have installed a Permaculture research site at the  UCI Arboretum . To date, we have removed an invasive species that covered the majority of the site, created an outdoor classroom, rehabilitated a grapefruit tree planted by UCI Founding Chancellor Daniel Aldrich, dug earthworks for stormwater management, and planted over 50 native edibles and support species. 
                To find out about future events join the  UCI Sustainable Polyculture Google Group . 
             
         
     
             
                 
                  
             
         
     
             
                 Southern California Sustainable Polyculture Database 
                     The database is currently under development and is expected to be available Summer 2016. If you are interested in participating in the population of the database please contact us at  perennialpolycultures@ics.uci.edu  
             
         
     
             
                 
                    
                 
             
         
     
             
                Sustainable Polyculture Composer 
                     The composer is currently under development and is expected to be available end of 2016. If you are interested in participating in piloting early prototypes please contact us at  perennialpolycultures@ics.uci.edu  
             
         
     
             
                 Contact us 
                  perennialpolycultures@ics.uci.edu 
                 
                
             
         
      

    
     
             Copyright © Sustainable Polycultures at UCI 2016 
         
    </body> 