 Introduction to San Mateo Meeting Notes<body>
 Introduction 

 
The first meeting of the Working Group on Distributed Authoring
on the World Wide Web was held on July, 10, 1996, at the offices
of America Online (AOL) Productions, 2600 Campus Drive, San Mateo,
California, USA.  The main objective of this meeting was to provide
a forum where people interested in fostering interoperability
between distributed web authoring applications could meet, exchange
information about the current state of the art and practice, identify
key interoperability issues, and formulate an agenda for achieving
interoperability.
 

 
While there are many tools on the market (e.g., SoftQuad HotMetal
Pro 2.0, Quarterdeck WebAuthor 2.0, Adobe PageMill 1.0, InContext
Spider 1.1) which provide a graphical user interface for the authoring
of HyperText Markup Language (HTML) format files and layout of
associated graphic content, these tools require the user to have
direct access to the physical storage of the name space served
by a HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) server.  This effectively
limits the use of these tools to computers connected to a local
area network (LAN) containing the physical storage.  In contrast,
an emerging class of tools (e.g., Microsoft FrontPage 1.1, AOLpress/AOLserver
1.1) allow users to save their work directly to an HTTP server,
affording a style of work where authors are located remotely to
the HTTP server hosting their content.  This second class of tools,
known as distributed web content authoring applications, were
the focus of this working group.
 

 
Meeting participants included members from the IETF HTTP Working
Group, the World Wide Web Consortium, the document management
community, software configuration management companies, distributed
web authoring tool vendors and researchers, and the academic hypertext
versioning community.  This wide range of expertise resulted in
very detailed and considered discussion of issues concerning distributed
web content authoring.
 

 
This web site &lt;  http://www.ics.uci.edu/~ejw/authoring/sanmateo/  &gt;
contains:
 

  A list of participants at the meeting

  Final agenda for the meeting

  Minutes of the meeting

  Transparencies shown at the meeting
   
I (the organizer) would like to thank Dave Long of America Online
for arranging the conference room at AOL Productions, and for
his in-meeting support.  I would also like to thank Ron Fein,
Henrik Frystyk Nielsen, Dave Long, and Andy Schulert for their
insightful presentations, and to all participants for their thoughtful
discussion.
 

 
Irvine, California, July 23, 1996  
Jim Whitehead
 

  
 
University of California, Irvine   
Jim Whitehead &lt;ejw@ics.uci.edu&gt;   
Department of Information and Computer Science  
247 ICS2 #3425  
Irvine , CA  92697-3425  
 
Last modified: 23 Jul 1996
 
</body> 