 ugrad<body>

    Bachelor of Science in Information and Computer Science 
    The B.S. in Information and Computer Science is a broader, more flexible program than is available at most universities. Because ICS is not part of another discipline such as Engineering, Business, Mathematics or Library Science, it does not focus on a single aspect of computing. 
 Students may select from six undergraduate specializations in Artificial Intelligence, Computer Systems Design, Implementation and Analysis of Algorithms, Information Systems, Networks and Distributed Systems, or Software Systems or combine the degree with a minor in a related field such as digital art, mathematics, or management. 
 An  undergraduate honors program  allows accelerated students to be challenged by the faculty in small classes and individual study projects.  
 Because UCI is a research university, it offers a distinctive type of undergraduate education in which students can become involved with advanced subjects before texts are available on the subject. In a rapidly evolving field such as information and computer science, this is particularly important. ICS students can gain experience with topics such as machine-independent program representations and profile-based optimization of programs, ATM networks, information technology and public policy, embedded systems, intelligent agents, computational geometry, knowledge discovery in databases, and hardware software co-design. This advanced component of the UCI education is valuable whether you choose to continue your education in graduate school or pursue a high technology career. 
 The unique features of the ICS program have attracted students with the highest high school GPA and highest math and verbal SAT scores at UCI to this major. ICS students are well rounded: the average verbal SAT score of an ICS student is a little higher than that of English majors and the average math SAT scores is a little higher than that of Mathematics majors. 
 The ICS faculty are dedicated to education as well as research and have authored more than 30 books on a wide range of topics in information and computer science.  
   
   
 Additional details are available on the  Frequently asked questions of B.S. Applicants  web page.  
 If you wish to apply using the on-line application, connect to  The University of California Pathways System . The deadline is November 30.  
      
    Join ICS      |      Undergraduate Program      |      Masters Program      |      Ph.D. Program      |      Faculty Positions    
   |       About ICS      |      About UCI      |      About Irvine      |      ICS Chair     |      Corporate Affiliates   
   </body> 