 BART Flyer<body> 
 
 
  University of California at Irvine
  Irvine Research Unit in Software 
(IRUS)  is proud to sponsor the 
 
 
 
   Bay Area 
Roundtable (BART)    
Scaling for the Internet series, meeting 3  
Internet Document Management

      

  

 * Friday, April 3, 1998 *  
 
9:00am-9:30am: Coffee/Network 
9:30am-12:00pm: BART Meeting 
Hyatt Rickey's Hotel - Palo Alto 
4219 El Camino Real  
Tel (415) 493-8000  
 
There is a $15.00 charge for non-sponsors.  
Checks should be made payable to  UC Regents</strong>.  
 No reservations required.      

  

Coordinator:  Richard N. Taylor, 
Director,
 UC Irvine  / 
 IRUS ; 
  taylor@ics.uci.edu 

 

   Web Based Distributed Workflow
 </strong>    
Keith D. Swenson,  Coordination Technology Architect, 
 Netscape Communications Corporation , 
 kswenson@netscape.com ;
 
http://people.netscape.com/kswenson/ 
 

  

The web has revolutionized the way that we do many things. Workflow is no 
exception. A few years ago we saw the emergence of HTTP interfaces on top 
of existing workflow products. Now we are beginning to see the emergence of 
workflow which has been designed from the beginning based around internet 
standards. In the same way that a hypertext document can have pieces served 
from any number of servers, one flavor of new workflow systems is to be 
fully distributed such that different parts of the workflow come from any 
number of different servers. Standardization of directory services through 
LDAP is having a big effect on workflow system, as well as standards in the 
document management field. To help with interoperability, the OMG is 
motivating standards of distributed workflow, with the prominent submission 
being the flow submission which is being readied for voting at this time. 
This talk will cover the elements of flow, web based workflow, and the 
trend of new workflow technology for the near future.

  

 Biography:</strong>
Keith D. Swenson is currently Coordination Technology Architect for Netscape 
Communications Corp. in Mountain View, California. He has just completed his 
role as architect for Visual JavaScript, a high level web application 
development environment which is now available to the public. At Fujitsu 
Software Corporation he lead the development of Regatta Technology, a 
workflow tool that allows groups of people to collaboratively define the 
processes that they are involved in, while performing the processes, now 
known as TeamWARE Flow. Previous positions include project manager for 
Framework at Ashton-Tate, and development lead for Open Access at Software 
Products International. He is a past vice-chair for the ACM SIG for Group 
Support Technology (SigGROUP). He has been elected a fellow of the Workflow 
Management Coalition, having chaired a working group on the Process 
Definition Interface in the past. He has an M.Sc. in Computer Science with 
a specialization in public hypertext information systems.

  

   Workflow Technology and Applications that Leverage the Internet </strong>   Raúl Medina-Mora, Senior Vice President and Chief Scientist, 
 Action Technologies,  
 raul_medina-mora@actiontech.com 
 

  

As businesses seek to cost-effectively grow revenues through increased 
customer, partner and employee loyalty, delivering responsive service is 
critical. Intranets and extranets can help organizations deliver superior 
service. To successfully deploy intranets as a tool to help companies 
achieve strategic business goals, intranet applications must be developed to 
encompass all necessary parties inside and outside the organization.

  

In a world still largely operating in vestigial mainframe development 
paradigms, several principles need to be embraced to realize the full 
potential of Intranet applications:

   Intranet applications function differently than client/server applications 
    because they serve different users: customers, partners, suppliers and 
    other voluntary users.

  Intranet applications are inherently workflow or "coordination" 
    applications because they need to respond, track and enable people to 
    complete actions forother people, rather than simply enter data.

  Intranet applications need to be built from open standards so work can 
    cross organizational boundaries, rather than remaining desktop 
    applications for primarily managing data.
   

In this presentation we will discuss the tools and technologies to design, 
build and deploy successful workflow applications that manage the business 
process of the organization, reaching its customers and suppliers to take 
full advantage of the intranets and extranets of these organizations. We 
will also exemplify with different scenarios that illustrate the nature of 
today's challenges that organizations have as they move to capitalize on 
the new business opportunities that the Internet provides.

  

 Biography: </strong>
Dr. Raúl Medina-Mora is Senior Vice President and Chief Scientist 
at Action Technologies, Inc. He was born in Mexico City. He received his 
Ph.D. in 1982 in Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University. He was 
a research assistant at the Computer Science Department, Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Associate Professor at the National University of Mexico and 
at the Instituto Tecnologico Autonomo de Mexico (ITAM). Since 1984 he has 
been associated with Action Technologies leading teams in the architecture, 
design and development of electronic communication and workflow systems. He 
has been a consultant to major corporations in the US, Mexico, South 
America and Europe. He is Vice Chairman of the Steering Committee of the 
Workflow Management Coalition, a group of companies dedicated to the 
specification of common standards for workflow in the industry, where he 
led the working group that produced the first standard specification for 
workflow applications.

  

 
Directions  to meeting are available

  

Upcoming Meeting:

  
 
  Meeting: Friday, May 8, 1998 
Topic:  
Scaling for the Internet series, meeting 4
  
&amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp Sharing Knowledge Across Organizations With eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
 
Coordinator: Richard N. Taylor, Director, UC Irvine/IRUS 
Speakers: Rohit Khare, UC Irvine/IRUS 
&amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp Jay M. Tenenbaum, Chairman and Chief Scientist, Veo Systems Inc.
 

 
 
The Irvine Research Unit in Software wishes to thank its 
 
corporate sponsors :  
 
 
Sustaining:
  
The Boeing Company * Boeing North American, Inc. * Northrop Grumman 
Corporation * 
Raytheon Company * Sun Microsystems Laboratories * TRW
 
 
Supporting:
  
Beckman Instruments * Continuus Software Corporation *
FileNet Corporation * Lockheed Martin *  
Logicon Ultrasystems Space &amp; Engineering Operations * 
NASA Ames Research Center * Printronix, Inc. 
 
 
 
For further information on 
 BART  or 
 IRUS,  contact  
&amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp 
 Debra Brodbeck  
at (949) 824-2260; 
 brodbeck@ics.uci.edu 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science  
University of California, Irvine  CA 92697-3425   
</body> 