 Analysis of Algorithms<body>
 CS 263, Winter 2012: Analysis of Algorithms 

 This course meets Monday, Wednesday, and Friday,
11:00 - 11:50 in Bren 1429. Coursework will
consist of weekly homeworks, graded during the class period on which they are due, and a final exam. 

 The course textbook is  Probability and Computing: Randomized Algorithms and Probabilistic Analysis  by Michael Mitzenmacher and Eli Upfal; in addition we will use readings from the internet. 

 Tentative list of topics: 
  Week 1:  Monte
Carlo algorithms  and
the  probabilistic
method . Basic concepts of probability
theory. Program checking,  Freivalds'
algorithm  for checking matrix multiplication,
the  Schwarz-Zippel-de Millo-Lipton method  for testing polynomial identities, and its
application to bipartite
matching. The  Valiant-Vazirani
theorem  on the hardness of search problems with unique solutions.  Primality testing . Suggested reading: Mitzenmacher and Upfal, chapter 1. 
 Week 2:  Las Vegas algorithms . Quicksort and  quickselect . Backwards analysis. Expected time analysis.  Suggested reading: Mitzenmacher and Upfal, chapter 2.
 Week 3: High probability time analysis. Variance, linearity of
  variance for independent variables. Probabilistic inequalities:
   Markov ,
   Chebyshev ,
   Chernoff . Suggested
  reading: Mitzenmacher and Upfal, chapters 3 and 4. 
 Week 4: Balls and
  bins. Maximum bin size for  hash
  chaining  and  load
  balancing .  Birthday
  paradox 
  and  Pollard
  rho .  Bucket
  sort ,  coupon
  collector , and  Bloom filters .
  The power of two choices. Random graphs and cuckoo hashing. Suggested
  reading: Mitzenmacher and Upfal, chapters 5 and 14. 
 Week 5:  Linear programming . Strongly polynomial algorithms for low
  dimensional linear programming.  Quasiconvex programming  and  LP-type problems .
 Smoothed
  analysis  of
  the  shadow
  vertex simplex method . 
 Week 6: Approximation algorithms.  Set cover  and its greedy approximation.  Linear programming relaxation ,  randomized rounding , the  method of conditional probabilities  for derandomization, and the  equivalence of the derandomized relaxation with the greedy algorithm .  Maximum cut , randomized 1/2-approximation,  semidefinite programming 0.878-approximation , and connection to the  unique games conjecture . Probabilistically checkable proofs and hardness of approximation. 
 Week 7:  Markov
    chains , stationary
    distributions,  total
    variation distance,
    and   mixing
    time .  PageRank ,
     random walks on graphs ,
    and approximate random sampling using rapidly mixing Markov chains.
    Equivalence between approximate sampling and approximate counting.
     Approximating the volume of convex bodies . Suggested reading:
    Mitzenmacher and Upfal, chapters 7, 10, and 11. 
 Week 8: Exponential time algorithms. Brute force search,
  backtracking
  algorithms,  3-coloring,
  and constraint satisfaction .
   Random
  walks for 3-satisfiability . Dynamic programming for the
  traveling salesman problem. Suggested reading: Mitzenmacher and Upfal,
  Chapter 10.
  Week
  9:  Inclusion-exclusion  for graph coloring and bin packing.
 Measure
  and
  conquer ,  quasiconvex
  optimization of backtracking recurrences , and  local central limits . 
 Weeks 9-10:  Parameterized complexity  and fixed parameter tractability.
The importance of choosing the right
parameter:  the
clique problem  parameterized by clique size and by degree.
 Kernelization 
and  vertex cover .
 Longest
paths , shallow backtracking,
 graph minors ,
 pathwidth ,
 treewidth ,
 bidimensionality ,
and  color coding .
 
 

Homework:
   Homework 1 , due in class Friday, January 20. 
  Homework 2 , due in class Friday, January 27. 
  Homework 3 , due in class Friday, February 3. 
  Homework 4 , due in class Friday, February 10. 
  Homework 5 , due in class Friday, February 17. 
  Homework 6 , due in class Friday, March 2. 
  Homework 7 , due in class Friday, March 8. 
    David Eppstein , 
 ICS ,  UC Irvine .  </body> 