 Welcome to IWIA<body> 
 
  
International Workshop on Innovative Architecture for Future  
     Generation High-Performance Processors and Systems
  
 


	Date: Oct. 22-24, 1997  
	Place: Maui, Hawaii  
	Location:   Maui High Performance Computing Center     

     Organizing Committee    
    
	   
	  USA    
	Dr. Michael Farmwald, Chromatic Research 
	Dr. John Fu, Intel Corporation 
	Dr. David Kuck, KAI Inc 
	Prof. Jim Goodman, Univ. of Wisconsin-Madison 
	Prof. Alex Veidenbaum, Univ. of Illinois-Chicago 
	Prof. Brian Smith, Univ. of New Mexico/MHPCC      

      
	   
	  Japan    
	Prof. Amamiya, Kyushu University 
	Prof. Kei Hiraki, University of Tokyo 
	Prof. Yoichi Muraoka, Waseda University 
	Prof. Kazuki Joe, Wakayama University        
    
    
  Workshop description       Participants        Submission        Local Arrangements      Preliminary Program   
    

         Description       
     This invited workshop aims to bring toghether researchers and designers
from academia and industry to discuss possible directions in the development
of high-performance, parallel, distributed, and multimedia processors and
systems.  The workshop invitees are computer architects as well as experts
in compilers, operating systems, and applications from the US and Japan. The
application and system software perspective on current and future
architectures is a key component of this workshop.    

The main themes of the workshop are technology implications for the
organization of "Systems on a Chip" (SOC) and of larger parallel
and distributed systems build from such SOCs, SOC features required to
tolerate latency and support multiple-processor design.  Both long-term
solutions and issues of current interest to industry will be addressed.
  

The workshop topics include but are not limited to:
   Systems On a Chip (SOC): architecture, on-chip interconnect, external
   interface, power, packaging, etc 
    Memory technology, its impact on the memory hierarchy and SOC
   organization: DRAM/processor ICs, RAMBUS, other memory organizations
    Low-cost, low-power single-chip multiprocessors    Non-scalable designs for "mid-size" multiprocessors    Scalable, high-end multiprocessors    Compiler-architecture co-design    High-speed communication/interconnect technology and distributed systems    Modeling, benchmarks, and performance evaluation of high-performance
   systems
  
The workshop format is individual presentations of position statements
followed by panel discussions.
  

Workshop participation is limited to about 45 people. Please reply
as soon as possible but no later than July 1st if you plan to
attend.
            
    Submission    
 
  
   An extended abstract (1 page) should be submitted before 9/15/97
   with full papers due by Oct. 1st, 1997 for on-site distribution.
   Papers will be refereed on the basis of the extended abstract.
  
	
   Submissions should be in postscript form in both cases.   Instructions
   and other workshop-related material will be made available at a later date.
   Full proceedings will be printed after the workshop for authors
   who choose to have their paper published. 
      Publication    
 
Full papers will be printed by IEEE Computer Society Press after
the workshop.  Here is a set of LaTex    macros  .
The full paper for publication in the final proceedings
will be due at the end of the year.   More info after the workshop.
         Participants       
       USA    
    
	   
        Prof. R. Bramley (Indiana)  
        Mr. D. Burger (Wisconsin)  
        Prof. W. Dally (Stanford)  
        Dr. M. Foster (NSF)  
        Prof. K. Gallivan (Florida State)  
        Dr. W. Gropp (Argonne)  
        Mr. Q. Jacobsen (Wisconsin)  
        Dr. J. Keller (DEC)  
	Mr. Alan Langerman (Orca Systems)       
        
	   
        Dr. D. Lenoski (SGI)  
        Mr. Charles Moore (IBM)  
        Prof. A. Nicolau (Irvine)  
	Dr. D. Pensak (DuPont)  
        Prof. C. Polychronopoulos (Illinois)  
        Dr. M. Snir (IBM)  
        Prof. K. Shenai (UofI Chicago)  
        Dr. J. Van Rosendale (NSF)       
 
         Japan    
    
	   
	Prof. Amano		(Keio U) 
	Prof. Boku		(Tsukuba U) 
        Prof. Fukuda		(Naist) 
        Prof. Kasahara		(Waseda U) 
        Dr. Matsumoto		(U of Tokyo) 
        Prof. Matsuoka		(TIT) 
        Dr. Nakajo		(Kobe U) 
	Dr.  Sato		(Toshiba)  	
        Prof. Shimasaki		(Kyushu U)  
               
        
	   
	Prof. Baba		(U of Utunomiya)  
        Dr. Goshima		(Kyoto U) 
	Prof. Honda		(Electro-Communication U)  
        Mr. Ido			(NKK) 
        Prof. Kitsuregawa	(U of Tokyo) 
        Dr. Kimura		(Fujitsu) 
        Dr. Kudo		(RWC) 
	Dr.   Kusakabe		(Kyushu U)  
	Prof. Nakamura		(U of Tokyo)  
        Dr. Seo			(NEC)  
               
 
           Travel and Local Arrangements      
  
There are some direct flights to Maui or one can fly to Honolulu and
catch a commuter flight to Maui.  For example, United flies
direct to Maui but from LA.
See maps and directions below for
airport, Prince hotel, and MHPCC locations.
   
Car rental may be desirable to drive to/from the airport, MHPCC meeting room,
and the hotel.  Car pooling will be possible, several people plan to have cars.
   
Registration fee: US$100.00 to cover breaks, lunch, and a few other expenses.
   
The workshop hotel is the Maui Prince where we have a special rate contract.
Reservations must be made directly with the hotel by 9/21 
 (the deadline is extended to 9/28) .
Call them at (800)-368-8444 or (800)-321-OAHU and
 ask for the IWIA group rate .
Or you can FAX the reservation using
the following   form  .
(It's a large file, just print it from your browser).
   
  Maps and directions
  to Maui HPCC.
   
We are planning a welcome reception on the evening of 10/21, come and meet
the others!
   
We are also planning to have a social activity.  The choice is a nice
snorkeling trip right off the hotel beach or a bus tour to the top of
the Haleakala volcano (not active:-) to watch the sunrise.  Tell us your
preference.
      alexv@eecs.uic.edu  
 </body> 