 IWIA'07<body>

 
  International Workshop on Innovative Architecture for Future  
Generation High-Performance Processors and Systems  
   Date: January 11-13, 2007 

Meeting Location:    Maui High Performance Computing Center     
Conference hotel:    Maui Prince Hotel           Program Committee    
    
           
Prof. Gianfranco Bilardi, U of Padua Italy 
Prof. Mario Furnari, ICIB-CNR Italy  
Prof. Kyle Gallivan, Florida State  
Dr. William Gropp, Argonne Natl. Lab  
Prof. Kenji Kise, Tokyo Tech Japan  
Prof. Atsushi Kubota, Hiroshima City U Japan  
Prof. Satoshi Matsuoka, Tokyo Tech Japan  
Prof. Hiroshi Nakamura, U of Tokyo Japan       

      
           
Prof. Hironori Nakajo, TUAT  Japan   
Prof. Alex Orailoglu, UCSD  
Prof. Elefterios Polychronopoulos, U of Patras Greece  
Prof. Toshinori Sato, Kyushu U Japan  
Prof. Guri Sohi, Wisconsin  
Prof. Kiyofumi Tanaka, JAIST Japan  
Prof. Tsutomu Yoshinaga, UEC Japan       
    
    Local Arrangements Chair: Alex Veidenbaum    
 Finance Chairs: Profs. Nicolau and Joe    
 Publication Chair: Prof. Nakajo    
 
  Workshop description    Submission    Participants    Local Arrangements    Preliminary Program     IWIA Steering Committee    
   
   Description   
  This invited workshop aims to bring together researchers and designers from academia and industry to discuss directions in the development of high-performance, parallel, distributed, and multimedia processors and systems. The workshop invitees are computer architects and compiler, operating system, and application experts. The main goal of the workshop is to discuss future trends in the development of architecture and software systems and to explore the assumptions made by the architects about software systems and by software writers about architecture. The increased complexity in each of these areas calls for increased interaction with researchers from all of the other disciplines to accurately assess the potential directions and future trends in architecture and systems.  
 The main themes of the workshop are software- and technology-driven and constrained new architectures, compiler/architecture interaction and co-design, and application requirements and characteristics. Both numerical and non-numerical applications, such as database, data mining, Web- and Java-based, and (high-performance) embedded applications, are of interest. In all cases a longer-term view and assessment of the future is of most interest.  
  This year's special focus is on multi-core systems and hierarchical systems and
ways to explore single-program parallelism on such systems.  
All aspects of design, compilation, and application
design are of interest for both single-chip multi-core processors and multi-processor systems built from such chips 
and are the 2007 special topics.

    Other topics of interest include but are not limited to the following:
  

   All aspects of processor design  
 Multi-threaded processors  
  Large-scale multiprocessors  
 Memory technology and memory hierarchy organization  
 Applications and their performance  
 Power management 
 Embedded system design 
  The workshop will consist of sessions combining individual presentations with discussion. Presentations will be limited to ~20 min to provide sufficient time for discussion. An ideal presentation will concentrate on trends and future directions in addition to recently obtained results. Speculation is encouraged.  
   Workshop participation is capped at 25 invitees.  
    
   Submission and Publication  
 The invitees wishing to make a presentation should submit an extended abstract, up to 3
pages, by 1/6/07. Submissions should be electronic in pdf format. The abstracts will be reviewed and printed in the on-site proceedigns.  
 The final proceedings consisting of full papers will be published by IEEE Computer Society Press after the meeting. The papers will undergo an additional review process and will be selected for publication in the post-proceedings. Papers will be due by July 1st 2007.  
Publication instructions will be distributed by CS Press at a later date.  
   Participants   
    USA  
   
 To be announced   
 
     
   
 To be announced   
   
   
  </body> 