 Life Search Programs<body>
      Life Search Programs  

      It is possible to find small but interesting patterns
    in Life just by trying random seed patterns, or by manually
    setting up glider crashes, etc. But many lifenthusiasts have
    written search programs to aid in finding larger patterns. It
    may be more productive to write your own programs than to run
    the ones listed here, since that way you're more likely to find
    something nobody else could have found. But, sometimes there's
    already an available tool for what you want, and anyway it's
    hard to be original without knowing what's already been
    done.  

      This page is intended as a catalog of these search
    programs: who wrote them, how do they work, what can they find,
    and how can one obtain them? I'm including even unobtainable
    programs here, for historical purposes and since it may be
    useful to have a description of their design
    principles.  

       Bays  

         Author:   Carter Bays   Requirements:  Unknown  Availability:  Unknown  Description:  Forms seed patterns by setting cells on
      or off randomly within a small rectangular block in a larger
      field. If evolution of a seed reaches the field boundary, the
      resulting pattern is recentered and evolved again. Patterns
      that reach the boundary a second time are saved as possible
      gliders. Used by Bays to find gliders in several
      three-dimensional and triangular-lattice cellular
      automata.  

        catalyst  

         Author:   Gabriel
      Nivasch   Requirements:  Platform-independent C++  Availability:   Freeware,
      on web   Description:  Places still-life catalysts to react
      with a given pattern. The program uses an exhaustive
      depth-first traversal of all possibilities. It only places a
      catalyst at the moment that it will react with the pattern,
      using a data structure to make sure that the placement will
      not interfere with previous steps of the
      reaction.  

        dr  

         Author:   Dean
      Hickerson   Requirements:  Platform-independent C  Availability:  Contact author  Description:  Searches for patterns consisting of a
      small perturbation "drifting" across a still-life background.
      Takes as input the perturbation and part of the background.
      Depth-first; simulates the evolution of the perturbation,
      making a choice whenever it needs the value of an unknown
      background cell, and backtracking whenever it finds an
      inconsistency in the background or the perturbation grows too
      large. Useful for finding high-period billiard-table
      oscillators, circuitry consisting of signals moving through
      static wires and components, and custom eaters.  

        gencols  

         Author:  Paul Callahan  Requirements:  Platform-independent C  Availability:   Freeware,
      on web   Description:  Enumerates collisions between patterns
      (e.g. gliders and still lifes). Includes output filters to
      detect oscillators, spaceships, or successful eating of one
      pattern by another. Life evolution rule is hardcoded as a
      sequence of bit-parallel integer operations (so it's possible
      to change but not easy).  

        gfind  

         Author:   David
      Eppstein   Requirements:  Platform-independent C  Availability:   Freeware, on
      web   Description:  Breadth first search for low-period
      spaceships. Extends partial patterns a row at a time, keeping
      track of rows in all phases of the pattern. Finds successor
      rows using a bit-parallel graph path computation; hash table
      eliminates redundant search branches; uses depth first
      iterated deepening, garbage collection, and row width
      reduction (triggered by excess depth in iterated deepening
      stages) to limit the breadth first queue size. Includes modes
      for finding symmetric patterns. For more details see my paper
       "Searching for
      Spaceships"  .  

        Glue  

         Author:  Paul Chapman  Requirements:  MS-Windows  Availability:  In development  Description:  Searches for slow-salvo constructions in
      Life (patterns that can be formed by starting from a blinker
      or block and colliding a single glider at a time into a
      previously constructed pattern, as described in Nicholas
      Gotts' paper "Self-Organized Construction in Sparse Random
      Arrays of Conway's Game of Life"). Takes a given starting
      pattern and generates and catalogs every possible collision
      between it and a glider.  

        gsearch  

         Author:   David
      Eppstein   Requirements:  Platform-independent C. Memory
      intensive  Availability:   Freeware, on
      web   Description:  Performs a brute force search of all
      patterns fitting within a small rectangle (4x7 taking a day
      or two). Evolves each such pattern for a specified number of
      generations or until it repeats, grows too large, or matches
      a previously seen pattern. Recognizes spaceships,
      oscillators, unstable oscillators (such as Life queen bee and
      p90), replicators, and some puffers. Includes modes for
      finding symmetric patterns.  

        Hersrch  

         Author:  Karel Suhajda  Requirements:  Windows  Availability:   C++ source and executable   Description: 
      Searches for open or closed Herschel tracks in Conway's Game of Life,
      using a database of known static and periodic track components.
      Backtracking search, pruning the search tree when the pattern exceeds
      given size bounds or when a self-overlapping sequence of
      components is detected (using an Aho-Corasick string matching automaton
      on a predefined list of impossible sequences).  

        Holzwart  

         Author:  Hartmut Holzwart  Requirements:  Unknown  Availability:  Unknown  Description:  Another search program similar to LS and
      lifesrc. Limited by machine precision to patterns with width
      at most 31. Used by Holzwart to find many variant c/2 and c/3
      spaceships in Life, and related patterns including the
      "spacefiller" in which four c/2 spaceships stretch the
      corners of a growing diamond shaped still life.  

        knight  

         Author:   Tim
      Coe   Requirements:  Platform-independent C. Memory
      intensive  Availability:  Contact author  Description:  Breadth first search for low-period
      spaceships. Extends partial patterns a row at a time in one
      phase only; checks that evolving the pattern through a period
      results in the same rows. Uses a fixed amount of depth-first
      lookahead per node to limit the breadth first queue size.
      Includes modes for finding symmetric patterns. Life evolution
      rule is hardcoded as a sequence of bit-parallel integer
      operations, multiple times throughout 25 pages of uncommented
      C (so not really possible to change without rewriting the
      whole program).  

        LifeLab  

         Author:   Andrew
      Trevorrow   Requirements:  Macintosh  Availability:   Shareware, on
      web   Description:  This is a general purpose CA
      viewing/editing system, but it also includes a brute force
      search of all patterns fitting within a small rectangle.
      Evolves each such pattern for a specified number of
      generations or until it repeats. Recognizes spaceships,
      oscillators, still lifes, and methusalahs. Not very
      fast.  

        lifesrc  

         Author:   David
      Bell   Requirements:  Platform-independent C  Availability:   
      C source  ,  Windows
      executable   Description:  Depth-first backtracking search for
      low-period spaceships, oscillators, still lifes, puffers, or
      predecessors of a given pattern. Maintains the state of each
      phase of each cell in a specified region as unknown, live,
      dead, or don't care; recursively tries setting each unknown
      cell to live or dead and propagating the consequences to
      neighboring cells in neighboring generations. Includes modes
      for finding symmetric patterns.  

        LS  

         Author:   Dean
      Hickerson   Requirements:  Apple IIe  Availability:  Still exists on a 5 1/4" floppy
      somewhere  Description:  Depth-first backtracking search for
      low-period oscillators, spaceships, and predecessors of a
      given pattern, similar to lifesrc. The name is short for
      "Life search". Written in 1989 using a combination of 6502
      assembler and Basic; mentioned by  Mark
      Niemiec  as the first program to search for oscillators.
      Described in more detail in the file "ORIGIN" included in
      some lifesrc distributions.  

        new4  

         Author:   Keith Amling   Requirements:  Windows-specific C++  Availability:  Contact author  Description:  Depth first search for low-period
      spaceships. Extends partial patterns a column at a time,
      keeping track of columns in a single phase of the pattern. At
      each level of search, tries all possible choices for the next
      column, and for each choice performs the evolution rule p
      times on the last 2p+1 columns (where p is the desired
      period). If the result of the evolution matches a shifted
      copy of the original middle column, the search continues
      recursively. Stops and outputs a successful spaceship when
      the result of the evolution matches not just the middle
      column but also all later columns. Life evolution rule is
      hardcoded but only in a small number of easy to change
      lines.  

        Niemiec  

         Author:   Mark
      Niemiec   Requirements:  Unknown  Availability:  Unknown  Description:  This is described by  Achim
      Flammenkamp  as an improved version of Raynham's still
      life enumerator, written in 1989, capable of finding all
      still lifes with up to 20 live bits. Design principles
      unknown. Niemiec apparently also wrote a brute force search
      program, which finds all oscillators or spaceships that fit
      in a given area (5x5 taking a few days as of 1994) based on a
      principle attributed by him to Raynham of simultaneously
      running two copies, one twice as fast as the other, and
      detecting when both reach the same state. (The same principle
      has been discovered by many other workers in other areas e.g.
      the Pollard rho factoring algorithm.).  

        ofind  

         Author:   David
      Eppstein   Requirements:  Platform-independent C  Availability:   Freeware, on
      web   Description:  Breadth first search for low-period
      oscillators. Similar to gfind, but extends patterns in all
      phases simultaneously rather than a single phase at a time,
      and includes special handling of stator cells. User can
      specify what spark the oscillator should produce, or how it
      should interact with neighboring patterns of other
      periods.  

        polyomino  

         Author:  Paul Callahan  Requirements:  Unknown  Availability:   Contact author   Description:  Enumerates all small polyominos
      (presumably by a backtracking tree search that tries all ways
      of adding a cell to each n-polyomino, in such a way that the
      same (n+1)-polyomino couldn't have been formed in a
      previously listed way). Simulates the evolution of each
      polyomino, determining whether it generates a previously
      known interesting pattern (such as a switch engine, Herschel,
      or pi) by forming 32-bit words representing the recent
      history of each cell and comparing against known signature
      words. Useful for finding small infinite-growth
      patterns.  

        ptbsearch  

         Author:  Paul Callahan  Requirements:  Platform-independent C  Availability:   Freeware, on
      web   Description:  Attempts to perturb a starting reaction
      by adding combinations of eaters or other still lifes, to
      make a different reaction product without destroying the
      added patterns. Life evolution rule is hardcoded in source
      but easy to change. Useful for finding Herschel tracks and
      glider guns.  

        Random Agar  

         Author:   Gabriel
      Nivasch   Requirements:  Platform-independent C++  Availability:   Freeware,
      on web   Description:  This program is intended to look for new
      Life oscillators, wicks, and agars. It generates random
      spatially periodic patterns, and runs them until they
      oscillate. It includes complete support for all possible
      symmetry types and clever oscillation detection
      algorithms.  

        Raynham  

         Author:  Peter Raynham  Requirements:  Unknown  Availability:  Unknown  Description:  This is described by  Mark
      Niemiec  and  Achim
      Flammenkamp  as the first program to search for still
      lifes, written in the mid-1970's. Design principles
      unknown.  

        sngdetect  

         Author:   Gabriel
      Nivasch   Requirements:  Platform-independent C++  Availability:   Freeware,
      on web   Description:  Tests interactions of gliders with
      patterns formed from common still lifes and oscillators. For
      each interaction, test whether the same pattern reappears,
      shifted some distance from its original position.  

        stilledit  

         Author:  Paul Callahan  Requirements:  Java-enabled web browser  Availability:   Web
      applet   Description:  After the user edits a pattern, in which
      some cells' states are marked as "fixed", this program
      attempts to find a still life matching those requirements by
      a hill-climbing approach, in which it toggles the state of
      unfixed cells to minimize the number of violations of the CA
      evolution rule, with some randomized variation to avoid
      getting stuck in local minima. Only works for Life, not other
      totalistic rules, but Java source code is
      available.  

        Still Lifes Auto  

         Author:   Gabriel
      Nivasch   Requirements:  Mac executable  Availability:   Freeware,
      on web   Description:  Mac port of StillEdit with a few added
      features.  

        Tooke  

         Author:  Paul Tooke  Requirements:  Unknown  Availability:  Unknown  Description:  Searches for puffers by truncating tails
      of spaceships (generated by a modified version of gfind) and
      testing what happens to the resulting patterns.  

        torus  

         Author:   Jason Summers   Requirements:  Platform-independent C  Availability:   Freeware,
      on web   Description:  Searches for high-period oscillators by
      testing the evolution of random periodic initial conditions.
      No user interface; user must change parameters in the source
      code.  

        tweak  

         Author:   David
      Bell   Requirements:  Unknown  Availability:  Unknown  Description:  Modifies known puffers or wicktrailers
      by changing cell values within a small rectangle using a
      brute force enumeration. Filtering principles
      unknown.  

        Wechsler  

         Author:  Allan Wechsler  Requirements:  Unknown  Availability:  Unknown  Description:  Developed in 1994, this program
      attempted to use genetic programming to "breed" spaceships
      and oscillators of a fixed period, using as a fitness
      function the similarity between the original pattern and (a
      shifted copy of) the pattern after evolving the given number
      of iterations. However, this program was only capable of
      finding small objects with small periods. Dave Greene tells
      me he later ran a similar experiment with even less
      success.  
       
        Cellular automata  ,  D. Eppstein  
     
  </body> 