 Second Homework<body>
  
 
          
 
 This assignment is due at the start of your
discussion section on Friday, January 17.   
 
  (a)    [only for students who did
not take ICS H21]   Now it's time to play with the Restaurants program
we passed out in class.  The code is available on the web at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/h21/restaurants.txt   .
 You won't be able to do all of this part until after Tuesday's
lecture, but the first few subparts are accessible now.  
 
  (a.1)   Make your own copy of this file
and open it in DrScheme.  Evaluate it by clicking the green arrow.  Remember
that you'll need to use at least the Pretty Big version of Scheme. 
Then, in the interactions (lower) window, type      (Restaurants)   
to run the program, typing commands to add, remove, print, and search for
restaurants.  
 
 [For simplicity, the Restaurants program asks
users to enter nonnumeric information as Lisp lists (i.e., in parentheses).
 Scheme does have strings; it makes better sense enter non-numeric information
enclosed in double-quotes instead of parentheses.  This doesn't require
any change in the code, other perhaps than changing the prompt to the user.]  
 
  (a.2)   Modify the code so that the
command for adding a new restaurant is '     n   '
instead of '     a   '.
 (This should require a change in two places.)  
 
  (a.3)   When you print the collection
of restaurants, it would be nice to have a blank line separating the information
on each restaurant.  Modify the program to achieve this.  (You only need
to add one procedure call--     (newline)   --in
one place.)  
 
  (a.4)   Modify the program code so that
it gives the user an additional menu choice:    
 
  e:  Remove (erase) all the restaurants from the
collection   
 
 When the user types '     e   ',
the program should remove all the restaurants from the collection (so that,
for example, if the next command were '     p   ',
nothing would be printed).  
 
 [This will require modifications or additions
in a few places.  You can do the main part of the work very easily indeed,
with a single procedure call.  The key is to think functionally, not of
changing values but of describing or creating the new value.]  
 
  (a.5)   Modify the program so that it
adds another menu item:    
 
  a:  Adjust prices for the dishes served   
 
 When the user types '     a   ',
the program should ask the user for an amount (positive or negative) representing
a percentage change in price (so that 100 would double a price and -50 would
cut it in half).  Then it should apply that price change to the prices for
all the restaurants in the collection.    
 
 [Here are some hints on how to approach this.
 If you want to be cool, you can postpone looking at them.  You might approach
this first by writing a   change-price  
procedure that takes a restaurant and a percentage change number, as above,
and returns a restaurant that has all the same information, except that
the price is changed appropriately.  Next you might write a call to   collection-change  
that uses   change-price  
and changes the prices in all the restaurants in the collection.  Finally,
you can incorporate these calls into the main program, adding the appropriate
command handling and so on.]  
 
  (a.6)   (extra credit; this is rather
tough at this point)  The search command currently allows the user to search
only for restaurants by name.  We can see that      collection-select   
allows much more flexible searching, however.    
 
 Modify the      search-collection   
routine in the main program to give the user a choice of searching by name
or by cuisine.  If the user chooses to search by cuisine, prompt for the
type of cuisine and perform the requested search with appropriate calls
to      collection-select   .
  [Hint:  Consider using some of the code on the second page of the "Notes
on Scheme" handout.]  
 
 Be sure you're comfortable with the overall
organization and operation of this program; some day you might be asked
about it.    
 
  (b)   [only for students who took
ICS H21]      We'll build a rudimentary
telephone book.  From now on, you should follow the conventional Java practice
of writing each class in its own file whose file name is the same as the
class name (so your Person class would be in the file   Person.java  --be
sure the spelling and capitalization are identical).  To compile all the
classes in a given directory, say "  javac
*.java  " and to run the code, say
"  java X  "
where X is the name of the class containing the main function.  
 
  (b.1)   First, create a class PhoneNumber
that has four integer fields:  areaCode, exchange, number, and extension,
so that for the phone number (949) 824-5072 ext. 1000, 949 is the areaCode,
824 is the exchange, 5072 is the number, and 1000 is the extension.  (The
extension field may be zero for numbers without an extension.)  Of course
you need a constructor and getter methods; you should also have a toString
method that produces the number in the format given above and a promptUser
method that takes a BufferedReader as a parameter and returns a newly constructed
PhoneNumber, asking the user to enter the number's components one by
one.   
 
  (b.2)   Modify your Person class from
last week's assignment to include, along with the name and age fields,
a phone field that contains a PhoneNumber object.    
 
  (b.3)   Create a class called Phonebook;
it should contain zero or more objects of the Person class.  You should
implement the Phonebook in an array whose maximum size (defined as a constant,
i.e., a   static final int  )
is 1000.    
 
 Aside from a constructor to create an empty
People class, your class should have these methods:  
 
 int size()   --returns
the number of Person objects in the class (initially, zero)   
 
 void add(Person P)  --adds
the specified person to the class (in no particular order).  If the Phonebook
is already full, you should print an error message and not add the Person.  
 
 Person lookup(String n)  --returns
the Person object whose name matches the parameter.  You may return the
first Person who matches (so you don't have to check for multiple entries
of the same name).  If the name isn't found, return null.  
 
 void remove(String n)  --removes
from the Phonebook the Person whose name matches the parameter.  Again,
you don't have to check for duplicate names.  
 
 void print()  --prints
all the Persons in the class, in some compact format.  You should rely on
the toString method of the Person class.  
 
 double averageAge()  --returns
the average age of all the Persons in the Phonebook (or zero, if the Phonebook
is empty)  
 
  (b.4)   Create a PhonebookTest class
that contains statements to exercise all the operations of your class and
demonstrate to a critical reader that they work properly.  For some good
advice about testing, read the two sections on testing in Alex Thornton's
 first ICS 22 lab 
at (   http://www.ics.uci.edu/~thornton/ics22/LabManual/Money/   ).
 One thing to think about his how to test your program's behavior when
the array is full.  Typing 1001 names isn't feasible; what other approach
could you take?  
 
  (b.5)   For extra credit, you may enhance
your program in one or more of the following ways, but remember that you
should never start on extra credit until all the required parts are working
perfectly.  
  
 Enhance the promptUser method of the PhoneNumber
class to allow the user to type in a whole phone number in some form, parsing
that string to extract its components.  (This is not so easy; this probably
shouldn't be the first extra credit you attempt.)  
   
 Check for duplicate names and prohibit them
(or treat the attempt to add a duplicate name as an update of the name's
other field values).  Or, return not a single Person but a new Phonebook
containing all the matching people.  
   
 Add a reverseLookup method that takes a PhoneNumber
and returns the Person in the Phonebook whose PhoneNumber matches.  
   
 Add a partialLookup method that takes a string
and returns (in a new Phonebook) all the Persons whose name starts with
that string.  (You'll need to look up the methods on the String class
to find one to help you with this comparison.)  
   
  What to turn in:     
 
 The Checkmate system (checkmate.ics.uci.edu)
is now up and running.  Go to that site and follow the instructions to associate
yourself with ICS H22.  
 
 For part  (a) , turn in one file via
Checkmate containing all your modified Restaurants code.  
 
 For part  (b) , turn in a Java file for
each class; Checkmate guides you through this.  
 
 We don't anticipate any problems with
the Checkmate system, which has been used successfully for three quarters.
 But if some trouble or confusion should arise, follow this procedure: 
First, wait an hour and try again.  Then, if the issue isn't resolved,
send us Email.  Nobody's grade will suffer because of Checkmate problems,
so long as you have done everything you can do.  
  
 Based in part on ICS H22 assignments by David
G. Kay from Winter 2000 and earlier; modified by David G. Kay, Winter 2001.  
 
 Based in part on ICS H21 assignments by David
G. Kay from Fall 2002 and earlier.  
 
 Modified by David G. Kay, Winter 2003, including
some logistical information from the ICS 22 Lab Manual by Alex Thornton.  
  
 
  
  
  David G. Kay ,
 406B Computer Science
   University of California, Irvine 
   Irvine, CA  92697-3425  
 --     (949) 824-5072   
 --  Fax    (949) 824-4056   
 --  Email   
     kay@uci.edu 
    

 
 Friday, January 17, 2003 -- 12:46 PM  
</body> 