 INF 133 Fall 2010: User Interaction Software<body>
 Informatics 133: User Interaction Software  
 Fall 2010-2011 
 Department of Informatics 
 Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  
  
    Home  |  Administrative Policies   |  Course Structure  |  Materials  |  Assignment Schedule   
 
 
    Assignment 04  :  
   Goal:  Learn how to build a multi-touch system from existing components </strong> 
   
          Requirements for the system:
              It must run a Java program compiled in Eclipse using   MT4J 
                    Unless you have a better idea (check with Prof.) extend the "advanced.drawing" fingerpaint program that comes as an example with MT4J with some interesting feature.  
                    
               It must receive events from a TUIO server.
                  Programs that run using MT4J have a TUIO server built-in. No additional work is necessary. If you are trying to recreate the demos from class with the flash applications, then you need to run the TUIO server that comes with Community Core Vision.  
                  
               It must receive multi-touch inputs from a live multi-touch device which you build. See  Community Core Vision  for software to do this from video.
                  I want you to build one using one of the techniques that we showed in class, or something else that you can think of. 
                   I want you to do more than just download an app that sends multi-touch input (although you can do that for testing if you want)  
                  
              
           Admin
              This is a group assignment. Groups may be no bigger than 3 people.
                  A recommended breakdown of assignments is:
                      Multi-touch person: Responsible for delivering multi-touch events to the system 
                       Java person: Responsible for writing code that responds to multi-touch inputs 
                       Systems Lead/ Integrator: Responsible for getting all the components to work together on one machine and creating the video to show the system working in the best possible light.  
                      
                  
              
            Due date is 11/18 at 12am, late Wednesday night, early Thursday morning 
             Demonstrate the system by video-capturing the system in operation. Target length of video is 4 minutes.  
             Turn in a link to a web-page which has:
                The names of the people in your group and a description of the work they did           
                
              A link to the video of the system  
               A 4-6 paragraph description of the components and architecture of your system including approprite citations.  
               A link to the source code for your program. 
              In a separate EEE quiz you will be required to independently grade the work of the other members of your group. This may have the effect of modifying their/your grade.
                The self-evaluation quiz is located  here .  
                
            Rough grading
              Group members all agreeeing that you did more or less than your share might send your grade up or down a notch               
              
            To get an A:
                The java program must respond to multi-touch events in real-time.  
                 Finger-painting (or alternative) must be compelling 
                 Video must clearly demonstrate the system working  
                 There must be a mutli-touch device 
                
             To get a B:
                The system might use recorded video for CCV instead of live input  
                 The system might have individual components that work but it doesn't work together 
                
             To get a C
                The video also fails to show anything happening 
                 There are clear errors in the Java program    
                
            Other links:
              TUIO Simulator for debugging the system ( reactivision )  
               iPhone application for remote multi-touch ( MSA Remote )  
               3M Multitouch  device  
               Mac TrackPad demo app. ( here )  
              
          
 
</body> 