 Rescue Dissemination Project<body>
 
   
         
           
            
         
 

 
 
        Home  
          People  
          Research 
               Introduction  
                Dissemination Scenarios  
                Customization Needs  
                Delivery Infrastructure  
              
          Results and Artifacts   
          Publications  
          Workshops  
          Classes  
          Related Links  
        
        
        
       
 
       Understanding Dissemination Scenarios 
     One of the scentific grand challenges addressed by the group is the understanding of the dissemination scenarios. We are indentifying and studying the role of factors involved in decision making to enable decisions regarding when, what and whom to warn to avert the usual problems of normalcy bias and over-response. 
     This problem is addressed by studying the four following technological and sociological areas: 
        Earthquake Information Dissemination Scenario </strong> 
         Emergent multi-organizational networks (EMONs) in Crisis </strong> 
         Diffusion of Crisis Information though Interpersonal Networks </strong> 
         Citizen Communication in Disasters </strong> 
        Earthquake Information Dissemination Scenario 
     This scenario deals with with the emergency situations created by an earthquake. The group is investigating on real-time seismic alerts, short term alert technologies that can be used to predict the fact that an earthquake is going to happen up to 40 seconds before the actual shake reaches densitly popolated areas. These techniques are currently being studied in the State of California to implement a system able to notify the population about the impending  danger. 
     On May 26, 2006 , RESCUE, assisted by the Natural Hazards Center , hosted an  Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) Workshop  at the  UCI  Campus. Key findings include the following:  
      Many accomplishments were made through the TriNet project specifically in seismological studies, including the ShakeMap technology. However, the pilot project, which was promised, was never undertaken, partly due to the lack of an IT infrastructure for enabling this. The workshop revealed that RESCUE dissemination technologies can play a significant role in enabling such a pilot project. 
       There is a need for a federal agency to step forward and take the lead on earthquake early warning. The lead agency will be protected from liability issues under federal mandate should legislation on EEW be created.  
       These findings apply to dissemination of information to the public in multiple ways. First, there is a clear indication that earthquake early warning is possible with the technologies that can now be made available. Second, we are more aware of the organizational issues surrounding information dissemination. For instance, it will be imperative that in the event of a quick onset hazard with little warning, information must reach individual users rather than get tied up in bureaucracy and organizational hierarchy. Additionally, we recognize that there will be various phases of hazard impact and therefore customized messages will need to be developed that address protective measures that can be taken at different points of time prior to and post impact. This affirms the role of IT techniques for customization in this scenario. In addition to the various key findings, this workshop afforded an opportunity for graduate and undergraduate student researchers to learn about the various aspects of earthquake early warning systems. They were introduced to the complexity of the problem which extends beyond technological capabilities to the social aspects of policy development and liability issues.  
      Workshop:</strong> 
      Earthquake Information Dissemination Workshop . May 26, 2006. UCI Campus. 
      Top  
        Emergent multi-organizational networks (EMONs) in Crisis</strong> 
     In the wake of disasters, previous researchers have identified emergent systems among groups and organizations. Due to phenomena such as mass convergence to the impact site, the need for improvisation in a changing environment, and the presence of conditions that exceed the capabilities of the pre-existing response system. When existing organizational networks are unable to cope with an event, emergent multi-organizational networks (EMONs) develop to meet the needs of the affected community. Relatively little is known, however, regarding the structure of such networks, or the determinants of interaction with them. Using data collected from the Sept 11 th WTC attacks, this effort analyzes the multi-organizational networks that formed after the WTC attacks and develops a methodology for extracting EMONS that can be applied in practice.  </strong>Such analyses apply to dissemination of information to the public since they help explain which organizations have the greatest ability to distribute information to the community at large due to their role and place in the network structure. For instance, specific non-profit or non governmental organizations can serve to link local organizations with diverse constituencies and vulnerable populations that otherwise would not be reached through more traditional channels. 
      Top  
        Diffusion of Crisis Information through Interpersonal Networks 
     The goal of this effort is to understand the information diffusion process on hypothetical population of persons within a region. In this preliminary work, the network is loosely typical of what one might expect from telephone contacts; vertices are scaled by the expected completeness of the information they would be expected to receive from a serially transmission process (e.g., word of mouth) in which each concept has a chance of being lost during each iteration. Factors studied include the number of steps from the point of origin and the time to first contact the node.  
      Publications:</strong> 
       Information Transmission Through Human Informants: Simulation </strong>  Gabriel Lawson ;  Carter Butts ;  
North American Association for Computational Social and Organizational Science Meeting, June 2004, Pittsburgh , PA, 2004-06 
      Top  
         Citizen Communications in Disasters</strong> 
     Recent crisis events around the world have drawn new attention to the role information communication technology (ICT) can play in improving warning and response activities. ICTs are enabling emergency responders as well as members of the public to develop new ways in which to respond to a crisis. Members of the public (through ICT) are not only playing a more active role in seeking information but also in providing information to each other and to formal crisis response and management teams. Drawing on disaster social science research, we consider the  role of public participation in disaster</strong> and  how ICT is extending this participation, particularly in the form of citizen-to-citizen communications</strong>. We reviewed information dissemination and consumption activities in cases of recent disasters, showing how low- and high-tech citizen communications vary in part depending on the physical, temporal, and spatial characteristics of disaster.  
      Top  
 
 
</body> 