 CS 277: Main Page<body> 
  

       CS 277: Data Mining, Winter 2014      
  
      Time:   Mondays and Wednesdays, 5:00 to 6:20  
     Location:  ICS 174  
    Course code : 34980  
     Professor:   Padhraic
    Smyth  
      Email:  smyth at ics.uci.edu    . Note: for any class-related emails make sure to put [CS277] at the start of the subject line of your email          Office Hours:  Tuesdays 10 to 11:30am, DBH 4212       Reader:   Maryam Khademi       Email:  mkhademi at uci.edu    . Please contact Maryam with any questions you have about the Assignments.        Office Hours:   Thursdays 12 noon to 1pm, Room DBH 4209     Please consult our  course page on Piazza  for course-related announcements and student posts and discussion          Syllabus and Slides        Project Guidelines    Please hand in project reports/proposals in class and also upload electronic copies to the appropriate folder on EEE  Project proposals due Monday January 27th in class  Progress Report 1 due Monday February 10th in class  Progress Report 2 due Wednesday February 26th in class  Final report due (electronic submission to EEE) by 8am Monday March 17th           Assignment 1   (due Wednesday January 15th)          Links to Software              Prerequisites for taking this Course:  CS 273a or CS 274a or an equivalent class. In particular, you are expected to have working knowledge of
basic concepts in machine learning, particularly classification and
regression algorithms (e.g., material such as described in this  CS 178/273a set of summary notes ).                      Goals of this Course: 
This course will cover a variety of important application areas for
data mining and machine learning, such as techniques for text
classification and text mining, Web data analysis, recommender systems,
data analysis of social network and social media data, anomaly and
fraud detection, and credit scoring.  The course will build on
your knowledge of basic concepts of machine learning/data mining
algorithms (e.g., from CS 273a) to show how these algorithms can be
applied in specific contexts. A significant portion of each student's
grade will depend on a class project.                               Reading and Textbooks:         There is no required text for this class - but there are multiple  introductory and more advanced texts  that are available on the Web that you may find useful.  In addition we will be providing lists of specific research papers to read throughout the quarter .                Grading Policy     Final grades will be a weighted combination of project scores as follows    10% for  Assignment 1    20% for each of the Progress Reports    30% for the Final Report             Academic Honesty       Academic
honesty is taken seriously. For homework problems or programming
assignments you are allowed to discuss the problems or assignments
verbally with
other class members, but under no circumstances can you look at or copy
anyone else's written solutions or code relating to homework problems
or programming assignments. All problem solutions and code submitted
must be material you have personally written during this quarter,
except
for any library or utility functions which we supply. Failure to adhere
to this policy can result in a student receiving a failing grade in the
class. It is the responsibility of each student to be familiar with
  
UCI's academic honesty policies  .                
        </body> 