 Hazel Crow Opportunity Fund for Women in Information and Computer Sciences (WICS) @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  Scholarships and fellowships  &gt;    


     
 Hazel Crow Opportunity Fund for Women in Information and Computer Sciences (WICS) 

 
 

 
The Hazel Crow Opportunity Fund supports expenses for WICS members to participate in conferences that focuses on computer sciences. According to the  Chronicle of Higher Education , “Nationwide, women earned only 18 percent of the bachelor's degrees awarded in computer science in 2010, according to the National Science Foundation. That's less than half the proportion in 1985, when 37 percent of those degrees went to women” (Oct. 29, 2012). In response to this nationwide issue, The Hazel Crow Opportunity Fund was established to support students seeking to participate in events that inspire, support and connect students and organizations dedicated to the study of computer science. First priority is the annual Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing. 
 
 
 
In the spirit of inspiration, the fund was named in honor of Hazel Crow. Dr. Crow was one of the first women in Australia to graduate with a dentistry degree. Born in the small town of Albury in 1900, her family moved to Sydney after Hazel’s father died. Her outstanding performance at Sydney Girls High School earned her a full scholarship to study dentistry at Sydney University in 1919. Hazel chose the four-year dentistry degree rather than a six-year medical degree so that she could more quickly contribute financially to her family. Hazel graduated with a Degree in Dental Surgery in 1923 — one of only two women in the graduating class, and ten years after the last woman had received that degree. After her graduation, Dr. Crow was one of the founding dentists of the outpatient dental department at the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children. At the time, it was unacceptable for women to treat male patients, even in dentistry.
 
 
  
Sydney University Bachelor of Dental Surgery Class 1923  
Hazel Crow is the woman on the right hand side.
 
 
   
  Eligibility: 
 
  Undergraduate and graduate  Women in Information and Computer Sciences  members who are enrolled at the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences.
    
 Full registration payment for undergraduate students; graduate students should receive 50% matching funds from advisors.
 
   Application: 
 
  Annual endowment proceeds will be directly used for registration or WICS-sponsored expenses.
    
 Include one paragraph explaining career goals and any personal involvement with activities that promote women's advancement in computer science fields.
    
 Graduate students: include financial commitment from advisor.
 
    
   To support the “Hazel Crow Opportunity Fund,” please go to Giving Site and in “Area of 
Support” select Information and Computer Sciences. You may then select “Hazel Crow Fund.”  
 
 
 http://www.uadv.uci.edu/HazelCrowOpportunityFund  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                                     
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 