 ICS 280 - Syllabus<body>
 
    Syllabus - ICS 280 - Computer Security Algorithms   
 
 Michael T. Goodrich    
	  http://www.ics.uci.edu/~goodrich/teach/ics280/   
(Office hourse by appointment)
  

   Coursework.  Coursework will consist of homeworks,
class presentations, and a course project. The overall grade
will be determined 30% from homeworks, 30% from class
presentation(s), and 40% from the final project.
Group work on homeworks is permitted, but each student must
list his or her collaborators in writing for each problem. If a student
turns in a solution without listing the others who helped produce this
solution, this act will be considered cheating (for it is plagarism).
(See the
 ICS 
Cheating Policy .)
Late homework assignments will not be accepted.  

  Text.  Pfleeger, Security in Computing, 2nd edition.
 

  Add/drop policy.  All drop requests should be given to
Prof. Goodrich at office hours or by appointment. Drops will be
accepted only up to the fourth week. Once your drop card has been
signed, further coursework from you will not be graded. After the
seventh week of classes, withdrawals will be allowed only by
petition and under documented extenuating circumstances, in
accordance with ICS departmental policy.

 
  Tentative Schedule 

   Week 1:  

  
Introduction. Elementary cryptography.  Public-key and symmetric
encryption. One-way hash functions.
 
   Week 2:  

  
Elementary number theory.
Discrete logarithms. Modular arithmetic.
 
  
 Week 3:  

  
Public-key algorithms.  RSA. El Gamal. Digitial Signatures.
 
  
 Week 4:  

  
Network security.
IPSec. Denial-of-service attacks. Email security. Web security.
 
  
 Week 5:  

  
eCash and eTickets. Digital certificates. Revocation.
 
  
 Week 6:  
  
Privacy and Anonymous communication.
 
  
 Week 7:  

  
Threshold cryptography and secret sharing.
Searching in encrypted data.
 
  
 Week 8:  

  
Server-aided algorithms and security for ad-hoc
networks.
 
  
 Week 9:  

  
Protocols. Oblivous transfer. Certified email. Coin flipping.
Electronic lotteries.
 
  
 Week 10: 

  
Temporial and Active security.
Steganography.
 
    
Copyright &amp;copy 2002 
 
Michael T. Goodrich , as to all lectures. 
Students are prohibited from selling 
(or being paid for taking) notes during this course to or by any
person or commercial firm without the express written permission of the
professor teaching this course.

 </body> 