 The Brain - Prototype<body>   
  
   

     
      
       
        
           Research 
        

        
           Projects 
        
        
        
           News 
        

        
           Notes 
        

        
           CV 
        
       
      
        

       
      
         
             /
          
             Projects  / The Brain - Prototype
          
         
                 

     


    
    The Brain - Prototype 


 
   
    May 2013 to Current
   
  
  

 
   My demo @  #ISR ,  #UCI ...  ics.uci.edu/~vpalepu/site/…  went live this morning ... Go explore a program execution :) 
  — Vijay Krishna (@vkrishnapalepu) 
   May 31, 2013 
 

 This is a very early prototype to assist developers, supported with visualization, to explore a program execution. This for instance would allow a developer to identify sections of the code that were executed right before a failure occurred because chances are that the fault is likely to be present in those sections (it might not be the try-catch block where the exception occurred, but probably the code that got executed before the try-catch block, that led to the exception). This alleviates the burden of manually figuring out the execution sequence, for instance using a debugger. This prototype looks at a single recorded execution of  NanoXML . 

 Each node in the visualization happens to be a source code line in the Java program, NanoXML. The layout of the source code, or the nodes, is guided by a force directed graph based on how the source code instructions are dependent on each other. 

  IMPORTANT</strong> Stay at the page for about 30-60 seconds for the visualization to load completely. The loading process currently suspends itself if you move away to another tab in your browser. 

  All Feedback is appreciated!</strong> Send your feedback to vpalepu @ uci . edu 

 Also, thank you  HTML5  and  D3.js  for killing the learning curve with developing web-applications! This was a 12-hour hack for a HTML5 newbie, which would not have been possible had the underlying technology not been so straight-forward! 

 
 

 

  TL;DR  - An online HTML5 application that can be used to visualize the execution of a single run of a sample Java program.  

 
	  Tags: 
	
		 SpiderLab 
		
			   
		
	
		 ISR2013 
		
			   
		
	
		 Program-Execution 
		
			   
		
	
		 Visualization 
		
	
 
 

 
   Related Posts 
     07 Oct 2015  »  Spider SENSE: Software-Engineering, Networked, System Evaluation  
    
        07 Oct 2015  »  Revealing Runtime Features and Constituent Behaviors within Software  
    
        01 Oct 2015  »  Attended VISSOFT 2015  
    
    


       
       
         home  •
          bitbucket .com  •
         Linked in   •
         Instagram  •
         medium  •
         stack overflow   •
          github .com   •
          arch ives 
        •
        Background:  Mt. Ranier , © Vijay Krishna Palepu, 2015
        
       
         
   
   
  
</body> 