 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  January 30,  2017
</strong>
 
      
      
         Tsudik's biometrics security research paper featured in February issue of CACM
</strong>
          
                    
 Communications of the ACM  ( CACM ), the monthly flagship publication of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), is publishing an abridged version of a research paper co-authored by Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Gene Tsudik, titled  “Authentication Using Pulse-Response Biometrics,” in the Research Highlights section of its February 2017  issue . Tsudik’s paper originally appeared at the 2014 Network and Distributed System Security ( NDSS ) Symposium. According to the paper’s abstract, the paper proposes a new biometric based on the human body’s response to an electric square pulse signal, called pulse-response, and how it can be used to enhance security.

  
The  CACM  magazine is known for its “trusted insights for computing’s leading professionals.”Every  CACM  issue contains two such research papers selected from top computer science conferences from the last two to three years; each selected paper undergoes an additional review process. Publication of a technical paper in the widely read CACM is highly regarded. Previous computer science faculty featured in the magazine’s Research Highlights section include Alexander Ihler’s paper  “Nonparametric Belief Propagation”  in October 2010 and Padhraic Smyth’s paper   “Creativity Helps Influence Prediction Precision”  in April 2010.

  
Tsudik is a Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science at UC Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences and vice chair of graduate studies in Computer Science. He is also a Fulbright Scholar, Fulbright Specialist (twice), a fellow of ACM, a fellow of IEEE, a fellow of AAAS, and a member of Academia Europaea. From 2009 to 2015 he served as Editor-in-Chief of  ACM Transactions on Information and Systems Security  (TISSEC). He is also a faculty member of the Center for Embedded and Cyber-physical Systems at UC Irvine.

  
View a video that highlights the research in the paper:

  "Authentication Using Pulse-Response Biometrics," a Research Highlights article in the February 2017 CACM, describes an almost entirely passive biometric.  


                      Tsudik's biometrics security research paper featured in February issue of CACM
    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Hackathon showcases creativity, innovation
              
                Next &gt; 
                 Data Scientist ranked top U.S. job by Glassdoor

             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 