 Student Testimonials |  
     
             
         Skip to Main Content 
       
             
                     
             Program Overview  
  Apply  
  Forms  
  Resources  
  Student Testimonials  
  Contact Us  
  
             
         
           
           
               
           
                                ICS Honors Program  
                   
         
                             
         
                   
       
         
                 
                                                   
              
                                     
                             Student Testimonials 
                                           
         
       
  
  
  
       
          
            

 
  
      Carl Vondrick and Kitty Ho  
  
   
       
  
    
   
         
  
  
   
           
                   
            

 
  
      Galina Tucker  
  
   
       
  
    
   
       
  
 "My research experience with the honors program was highly enjoyable. I worked with Professor Lisa Pearl, in Cognitive Sciences, on the creation of a web-based game to gather linguistic data. This was an incredibly fun topic for me, as it merged the skills from my major (ICS) with the interest of my minor (Linguistics). I ended up taking four quarters of honors research, despite only needing two. I get along very well with my advisor, and it's very beneficial to have such a close relationship to a professor. I learned a great deal about Perl, MySQL and self-motivation for a project. The ICS Honors Program additionally complemented the Campuswide Honors Program requirements (both require research and a thesis). I think that participating in this program has added a lot of depth to my undergraduate career." 
 — Galina Tucker, Information and Computer Science, Class of 2011    
  
  
   
           
                 
            

 
  
      Reza Ghassemi  
  
   
       
  
    
   
       
 "My research is actually more of a creative project. I'm creating a video game, a 2d side-scrolling puzzle platformer using C# and XNA. I want to thank the ICS Honors Program for understanding the value of this unorthodox project for my future career, and giving it the green light even though it does not fall under the usual definition of research. Everyone I've interacted with in the program has been helpful and enthusiastic, and overall it's been a good experience." 
 — Reza Ghassemi, Information and Computer Science, Class of 2011    
  
  
   
           
                   
            

 
  
      Robert Simpson  
  
   
       
  
    
   
       
 "As part of the ICS Honors Program, I worked with Nicolas Lopez, one of Professor Andre van der Hoek's graduate students, on developing the Code Orb. The Code Orb merges information from other tools to provide developers with contextual information about the code they're working on in an intuitive, visual way. The best part about the program for me has been the opportunities it has provided. I was able to develop my presentation skills, work with graduate students specializing in fields that interest me, attend conferences, and gain valuable practical experience working with real technologies." 
 — Robert Simpson, Computer Science, Class of 2011    
  
  
   
           
                  
  
  
  
  
  
  
                             
                        
                       
         
               
     
              </body> 