 BART Flyer<body> 
 

  University of California at Irvine
  Irvine Research Unit in Software 
(IRUS)  is proud to sponsor the 

 

   Bay Area 
Roundtable (BART)    
Scaling for the Internet Series, Meeting 1       

  
 * Friday, February 13, 1998 *  

9:00am-9:30am: Coffee/Network 
9:30am-12:00pm: BART Meeting 
Hyatt Rickey's Hotel - Palo Alto 
4219 El Camino Real  
Tel (415) 493-8000  

There is a $15.00 charge for non-sponsors.  
Checks should be made payable to  UC Regents</strong>.  
 No reservations required.      
  

Coordinator: Professor  David S. 
Rosenblum , UC Irvine/IRUS;  dsr@ics.uci.edu 

 

   Internet-Scale Event Observation and Notification
 </strong>    David S. Rosenblum ,
 UC Irvine  /  IRUS ,  dsr@ics.uci.edu    

There is increasing interest in having software systems
execute and interoperate over the Internet.  Execution and
interoperation at this scale imply a degree of loose coupling and
heterogeneity among the components from which such systems will be
built.  One common architectural style for distributed, loosely-coupled,
heterogeneous software systems is a structure based on event generation,
observation and notification.  The technology to support this approach
is well-developed for local area networks, but it is ill-suited to
wide-area networks such as the Internet.  Because of the challenges
posed by Internet scale, a number of companies are producing a new
generation of event messaging technologies that are designed
specifically for wide-area networks.  Examples of such products include
TIBnet from TIBCO, Ambrosia from Open Horizon, and push technologies
such as Marimba Castanet and PointCast.

  

In this talk, I will first define the attributes of Internet scale that
are important for wide-area event messaging.  I will then evaluate some
existing technologies as to their suitability for Internet-scale event
messaging.  Finally, I will present recent work on the design of a
general Internet-scale event observation and notification service.

  

 Biography:</strong>
David S. Rosenblum is on the faculty of the Department of
Information and Computer Science at the University of California,
Irvine.  His research interests are centered on the design and
validation of distributed component-based software. He received a Ph.D. in
1988 from Stanford University, and from 1988 to 1996 he was a Research
Member of the Technical Staff at AT&amp;T Bell Labs in Murray Hill, New
Jersey.  He is the author of numerous technical papers on a variety of
topics in software engineering.  He is a member of the ACM and a senior
member of the IEEE.

  

   An Approach to Large-Scale Collection of Application
Usage Data Over the Internet
 </strong>    David F. Redmiles ,
 UC Irvine  /  IRUS ,  redmiles@ics.uci.edu 
 

  

Empirical evaluation of software systems in actual usage 
situations is critical in software engineering. Prototyping,
beta testing, and usability testing are widely used to refine
system requirements, detect anomalous or unexpected system
and user behavior, and to evaluate software usefulness and 
usability. The World Wide Web enables cheap, rapid, and 
large-scale distribution of software for evaluation purposes. 
However, current techniques for collecting usage data have not 
kept pace with the opportunities presented by Web-based 
deployment. Some software companies (e.g. Aqueduct Software)
are now beginning to exploit the Internet as a means for
collecting information about application usage in beta testing
situations.  This paper presents an approach, based on user
interface event monitoring, that makes large-scale, ongoing
collection of usage data over the Internet a practical possibility.

  

 Biography:</strong>
David Redmiles is an assistant professor in the Department of Information
and Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine.  His research
interests lie in the overlap between human-computer interaction and software
engineering.  His current projects include software design critics, the
collection of usability data over the Internet, project awareness, and the
study of work activity in software maintenance.  He received his Ph.D. in
computer science from the University of Colorado at Boulder in 1992.


  


 
Directions  to meeting are available.

  

  
Meeting 2: Friday, March 13, 1998  
Topic:  Scaling for the Internet Series, Meeting 2  
           Internet Document Management 
Coordinator:  E. James Whitehead ,  UC Irvine  /  IRUS,    ejw@ics.uci.edu 
 

 

The Irvine Research Unit in Software wishes to thank its corporate  sponsors :  


Sustaining:
   The Boeing Company * Boeing North American, Inc. * Northrop Grumman Corporation *
    Raytheon Company * Sun Microsystems Laboratories * TRW   
Supporting:
     Beckman Instruments * Continuus Software Corporation *
    FileNet Corporation * Logicon Ultrasystems Space &amp; Engineering
    Operations * Lockheed Martin * NASA Ames Research Center *
    Printronix, Inc.    

For further information on  BART  or  IRUS,    contact  Debra Brodbeck  
at
(714) 824-2260;  brodbeck@ics.uci.edu 
 

 

   
  
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science  
University of California, Irvine  CA 92697-3425   
</body> 