 The Geometry Junkyard: Geometric Probability<body>

 
   
 
  
  
Randomness and Geometric Probability
 
   Buffon's needle .
What is the probability that a dropped needle lands on a crack on a
hardwood floor?
From  Kunkel's mathematics
lessons .
 
    Geometric probability question .
What is the probability that the shortest paths between three random
points on a projective plane form a contractible loop?
 
    Geometric
probability constants . From MathSoft's favorite constants pages.
 
    Green-haired geometric pre-hominids .
 
    Points on
a sphere .  Paul Bourke describes a simple random-start hill-climbing
heuristic for spreading points evenly on a sphere, with pretty pictures
and C source.
 
    Random domino tiling of an Aztec diamond 
and other undergrad research on random tiling.
 
    Random spherical arc crossings .
Bill Taylor and Tal Kubo prove that if one takes two random geodesics
on the sphere, the probability that they cross is 1/8.
This seems closely related a famous problem on the probability
of choosing a convex quadrilateral from a planar distribution.
The minimum (over all possible distributions) of this probability
also turns out to solve a seemingly unrelated combinatorial
geometry problem, on the minimum
number of crossings possible in a drawing of the complete graph with
straight-line edges:
see also " The
rectilinear crossing number of a complete graph
and Sylvester's four point problem of geometric probability ",
E. Scheinerman and H. Wilf, Amer. Math. Monthly 101 (1994) 939-943,
 rectilinear
crossing constant , S. Finch, MathSoft, and
 Calluna's pit ,
Douglas Reay.
 
    Random polygons .
Tim Lambert summarizes responses to a request for
a good random distribution on the n-vertex simple polygons.
 
    Self-trapping random walks ,
Hugo Pfoertner.
 
    Zonohedron generated by 30 vectors in a circle ,
and  another generated by 100 random vectors ,
Paul Heckbert, CMU.
As a recent article in The Mathematica Journal explains,
the first kind of shape converges to a solid of revolution of a
sine curve.  The second clearly converges to a sphere but Heckbert's example looks more like a
 space potato .
 
     
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  Send email  if you
know of an appropriate page not listed here.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 