 
      Dr. Rina Dechter @ UCI
    <body>

[an error occurred while processing this directive]

   
     
   ICS-280, Current Topics in Graphical models with focus on Text-mining and Transportation areas 
     
  
      
  Classroom: ICS 243   Day: Wednesday
    Time: 1:00 - 3:50pm
    Instructor: Rina Dechter -  dechter@ics.uci.edu 
      


   
 The seminar will focus on most recent research papers
in graph-based reasoning and knowledge represntation,
  as well as on exploring connection with
two application areas, 1. text-mining and 2. transportation studies.
Each student will be
engaged in a research project and will be required to present
relevant papers from the literature as well as their own findings.
Students will also need to provide a final report for their research
project.
  

Some topics we will focus on are:   The role of graphical models in planning and scheduling; planning under uncertainty (MDPs, POMDPS);
	  Text-mining: we will study recent papers.
	  The transportation domain: Can graphical models technology (probabilistic or deterministic) be applied?  Transporation Papers 
	   ICAPS'04 Papers 
	  [  PDF  |  PS  ]
	Guoqiang Pan, Moshe Y. Vardi.  "Search vs. Symbolic Techniques in Satisfiability Solving" .
	  [  PDF  ]
	Jonathan S. Yedidia, William T. Freeman, and Yair Weiss.  Constructing Free Energy Approximations
	and Generalized Belief Propagation Algorithms 
	  [  PDF  ]
	Lin Liao, Dieter Fox, Henry KautzJonathan.  Learning and Inferring Transportation Routines 
	   Dynamic Bayesian Networks: Representation, Inference and Learning 
	Kevin Murphy's PhD Thesis.
	   Inferring High-Level Behavior from Low-Level Sensors 
	Donald J. Patterson, Lin Liao, Dieter Fox, and Henry Kautz.
   
Presentations:    AND/OR search for mixed networks and #CSP  - presented by Robert Mateescu.
	   Albatross model (see 3 above)  - presented by Robert Mateescu.
	   Craig Rindt's Thesis  - presented by Vibhav Gogate.
	   Learning and Inferring Transportation Routines ,
	Lin Liao, Dieter Fox and Henry Kautz - presented by Vibhav Gogate.
	   Inferring High-Level Behavior from Low-Level Sensors ,
	Don Peterson, Lin Liao, Dieter Fox, Henry Kautz - presented by Radu Marinescu.
	   HAPP ,	W. W. Recker - presented by Jeremiah Jilk.
      
   

  
 School of Information and Computer Science 
 University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3435 
 Dr. Rina Dechter 

 dechter at ics.uci.edu 

  

</body> 