 CS 295 - Syllabus<body>
 
    CS 295 - Seminar on Algorithms for Cyber-Fraud Prevention and
Detection   
Spring 2009
 
 Michael T. Goodrich    
	  http://www.ics.uci.edu/~goodrich/teach/cs295/   
Office hours: MWF 10:00am-10:50am and by appointment
  

 General Course Information 

   Topics.  This seminar is focused on recent research
addressing cyber-fraud prevention and detection. Topics of interest
include online auction fraud, click fraud, credit fraud, identity
theft, information leaks, phishing, pharming, and social network
security and privacy. This course will  not  be dealing directly with
several classic topics in computer and information security, 
including intrusion detection, computer viruses, and cryptography,
but themes and techniques from these classic topics may play a role
in some of the recent work on the topics of interest.
   Coursework.  Coursework will consist of weekly meetings, 
discussions, readings, and course presentations.
The overall grade
will be determined 40% from participation in weekly 
meetings and discussions and 60% from presentations.
  

  Add/drop policy.  Drops will be
accepted only up to the sixth week. 
After the seventh week of classes, withdrawals will be allowed only by
petition and under documented extenuating circumstances.
 
  Tentative Set of Topics and 
External Resources for Presentations 


   Online Auction Fraud
  
 
The Role of Reputation Systems in Reducing On-Line Auction Fraud
 
  
 
Netprobe: a fast and scalable system for fraud detection in online auction
networks
   
 
A Proposed Data Mining Approach for Internet Auction Fraud Detection
   
 
Fraud detection in electronic auction
   
 
Detecting fraudulent personalities in networks of online auctioneers
   
 
Auctions with untrustworthy bidders
   
 
New Algorithms for Mining the Reputation of Participants of Online Auctions
   
 
Undesirable and fraudulent behaviour in online auctions
 
     Click Fraud
  
 
Click Fraud Resistant Methods for Learning Click-Through Rates
   
 
Combating Click Fraud via Premium Clicks
   
 
Badvertisements: Stealthy Click-Fraud with Unwitting Accessories
   
 
Using association rules for fraud detection in web advertising networks
   
 
SLEUTH: Single-pubLisher attack dEtection Using correlaTion Hunting
   
 
On Hit Inflation Techniques and Detection in Streams of Web Advertising
Networks
   
 
Detectives: detecting coalition hit inflation attacks in advertising networks
streams
   
 
Addressing Click Fraud in Content Delivery Systems
   
 
Pay-per-percentage of impressions: an advertising method that is highly
robust to fraud
      Credit Fraud, Identity Theft, Information Leaks, Phishing, and Pharming
  
 
 scalable learning with non-uniform class and cost distributions: A case
 study in credit card fraud
   
 
Distributed data mining in credit card fraud detection
   
 
FindOut  : Finding Outliers in Very Large Datasets 
   
 
Adaptive Fraud Detection
   
 
Countering Identity Theft Through Digital Uniqueness, Location
Cross-Checking, and Funneling
   
 
Federated Identity Management 
   
 
A Model for Delimited Information Release
   
 
Web wallet: preventing phishing attacks by revealing user intentions
   
 
Phoolproof Phishing Prevention 
   
 
Learning to detect phishing emails
   
 
Detecting Phishing Web Pages with Visual Similarity Assessment Based on Earth
Mover's Distance (EMD)
   
 
Drive-By Pharming 
   
 
Dynamic pharming attacks and locked same-origin policies for web browsers
      Social network security and privacy
  
 
SybilGuard: defending against sybil attacks via social networks
   
 
Wherefore art thou r3579x?: anonymized social networks, hidden patterns, and
structural steganography
   
 
SybilLimit: A Near-Optimal Social Network Defense against Sybil Attacks
   
 
Preserving Privacy in Social Networks Against Neighborhood Attacks
   
 
Trust Transfer: Encouraging Self-recommendations Without Sybil Attack 
      
Copyright &amp;copy 2009
 
Michael T. Goodrich , as to all lectures and course content. 
Students are prohibited from recording the audio or video content of
lectures and from selling 
(or being paid for taking) notes during this course to or by any
person or commercial firm without the express written permission of the
professor teaching this course.

 </body> 