 Sign Language | Home<body>


 
     
           Home  
			  History  
			  Fun Facts  
			  Basics  
			  About Us  
			  Contact  
		  
	 
      
	 
 



 
Don't like the current theme? Choose another one below!   


 
 
   
 American Sign Language 
 
   
 What is American Sign Language? 
 American Sign Language (ASL) is a complete, complex language that uses signs made by moving the hands, along with facial expressions and body postures. It is the primary language for the deaf and hard of hearing living in North America. No one form of sign language is universal. Each country or region uses their own sign languages. 
 
 
 How does ASL compare with spoken languages? 
 In spoken language, words are produced by using the mouth and voice to make sounds. However, for the deaf, their speech isn't heard. Thus, the best way for them to communicate and receive information is through sign languages. 
 ASL is a language that is completely separate and distinct from English. It contains all the fundamental features of language, such as its own rules for pronunciation, word order, and complex grammar. Every language has unique ways of signaling different functions, such as asking a question instead of making a statement. For example, English speakers ask a question by raising the pitch of their voice; ASL users ask a question by raising their eyebrows, widening their eyes, and tilting their bodies forward. 
 Similarly with other languages, the ways ideas are expressed in ASL vary as much as ASL users do. In addition to individual differences in expression, ASL has regional accents and dialects. Just as certain English words are spoken differently in different parts of the country, ASL has regional variations in the rhythm of signing, form, and pronunciation. Ethnicity and age are a few more factors that affect ASL usage and contribute to its variety. 
 
   
 Works Cited:  
   http://www.nidcd.nih.gov/health/hearing/pages/asl.aspx  
      




 
    Copyright © 2013  WICS 
 

</body> 