 programmer-job-description-Dec07<body>
   Job Summary : 
Under the supervision of the Director and Research Director of the Game
Culture and Technology Laboratory (GameLab) at UCI Calit2, this person
will carry out a variety of computer game programming and related
software development activities, including creation and iterative
refinement of 2D or 3D artwork for computer game applications.
Programming activities may also include development, testing, and
integration of computer games to local/remote database management
systems or servers operating on the Internet/Web. Artwork activities
will include creation and refinement of both static and animated game
art assets including in-game characters, background, environmental
settings, and various kinds of object textures. All activities will
include formal documentation in forms suitable for distribution to
other game developers or high-level end-users (game players) who are
capable of modifying existing game art assets, layouts, levels,
animated behaviors, or game engine. Also, this person will be expected
to provide demonstrations or work in progress or completed results to
either visitors, research sponsors, or others designated by the
Director or Research Director of the GameLab at UCI.   First Essential Function:  40%   Game software
development. Perform a variety of computer game programming and related
software
development activities, including creation and iterative refinement of
2D or 3D computer game applications, under the direction of the
Director or Research Director of the UCI GameLab. Programming
activities
may also include development, testing, and integration of computer
games to local/remote database management systems or servers operating
on the Internet/Web, including use Flash-based tools or compatible
techniques.. Also includes preparation and dissemination of formal
documentation in forms suitable for distribution to
other game developers or high-level end-users (game players) who are
capable of modifying existing game art assets, layouts, levels,
animated behaviors, or game engine.   Second Essential Function    40%   Game
art development. Perform a variety of computer game
artwork activities including creation and refinement of both
static
and animated game art assets including in-game characters, background,
environmental settings, and various kinds of object textures using
Flash-based tools or compatible techniques. All
activities will include formal documentation in forms suitable for
distribution to other game developers or high-level end-users (game
players) who are capable of modifying existing game art assets,
layouts, levels, animated behaviors, or game engine.   
Third Essential Function  20%   Documentation and
demonstration of games, game software, and game artwork produced. In
addition, this person will be expected to provide demonstrations or
work in
progress or completed results to either visitors, research
sponsors, or
others designated by the Director or Research Director of the GameLab
at UCI.     Required skill, knowledge, and abilities:  
minimum 3 years experience in 
developing Flash-based computer games  
experience in the design, 
coding, testing, and deployment of computer games over the Internet/Web  
experience with the development and deployment of ten or more 
computer games  
minimum 3 years experience in the creation of 
computer game artwork and art assets  
experience in the development 
and use of game level editors  
minimum three years of experience in all phases of 
software development, analysis, programming, testing,  documentation, 
and maintenance, including experience working with external customers.  
B.S. in Computer Science or similar 
degree/field
</body> 