 Links tab in the Chimera Server<body>

  Home  

 Links tab 

 The Links tab allows the user to manipulate the links stored in the current hyperweb. This tap provides operations to create and delete links as well as to select and deselect the  active link . The active link is a link which is shared between all of the user's Chimera clients. This enables a user to select a link and then add anchors to it without having to communicate the details of the link to each connected client. A client simply tells the server to add the selected anchors to the active link and the server takes care of the details. 

   

 Operations 

 The Links tab provides four operations:   Select the Active Link ,  Deactivate (the Active Link) ,  Create Link , and  Delete Link . 

 Selecting the Active Link 

 The user may activate a link by clicking on its name (or Id) in the Links list.
The link will be highlighted in the list and it will also appear next to
the enabled Deactivate button. 

   

 In the example above,  bob link  has been selected. This makes  bob link  the active link. (Note the Deactivate button with bob_link listed next to 
it. 

 Deactivate (the Active Link) 

 To dectivate the active link, click on the  Deactivate  button when
there is an active link selected. This returns the display to 
the first image above. 

 Create Link 

 The  Create Link  operation creates a new link.  To create a link, 
click the  Create Link  button. 

 A dialog will ask the user to name the link. In the example below, the new link is called  tom link . 

   

 The new link is added to the list. 

   

 Delete Link 

 This operation deletes a link from the hyperweb. Since a hyperweb can inherit links from its ancestors, it is possible to delete a link which is not contained in the currently connected hyperweb. Delete Link is only available when
a link has been selected as the active link 

 To delete a link, select a link in the list.  In the example below,  bad link  has been selected. 

   

 Click the  Delete Link  button. The selected link is deleted and removed from the Links list. 

   

  Home  

</body> 