 Behzad Sajadi's webpage<body>
 
	
	
	
	 
	 


		

				 

   
  			    
		 
		    Ubiquitous Displays:  Imagine a world in which people can use their handheld mobile devices to project and transfer content.
Everyone can join the collaboration by simply bringing their mobile devices close to each other.
People can grab data from each others' devices with simple hand gestures.
Now imagine a large display created by tiling multiple displays where multiple users can interact
with a large dynamically changing data set in a collocated, collaborative setting and the displays
will take care of the data transfer and handling functions in a way that is transparent to the users.  (read more)  
		  
    	 
       
  			    
		 
		    Novel Degrees of Flexibility in Computational Cameras:   Camera consumers are forced to live with several trade-offs on the quality.
For example RGB cameras are suitable for capturing lighted scenes while CMY cameras are optimal for dark scenes.
Similarly, faithful capture of colourful scenes demand more than three primaries that trades off the spatial resolution.
Single shot HDR cameras suffer from a similar trade-off. We tried to overcome such limitations by offering new
degrees of flexibility using multiple layers of color filter arrays that can precisely move on top of each other.  (read more)  
		  
    	 
       
  			    
		 
		    Appearance Editing:   In this project we superimposes multiple projections onto an object of arbitrary shape and color to
produce high resolution appearance changes. Our system produces appearances at a resolution higher
than what is possible with a single projector and can change appearances at near interactive rates.
We achieved several appearance edits including specular lighting, subsurface scattering, inter-reflections,
and color, texture, and geometry changes on objects with different shapes and colors.  (read more)  
		  
    	 
       
  			    
		 
		    Out-of-Core Data Management for Walkthrough Models:   New walkthrough models are becoming increasingly larger everyday and it's not feasible to keep the
whole model in the main memory anymore. Therefore, novel out-of-core techniques are required to achieve interactive frame rates.
We are investigating several directions in this area including:
(1) Novel disk layouts to minimize the hard disk seek time;
(2) Novel in-core data structures that can effectively index the out-of-core data;
(3) Storing pre-processed data in order to minimize the CPU workload.  (read more)  
		  
    	 
       
  			    
		 
		    Processing of Scanned Point Clouds:   Most of the modern large point data sets are produced by devices that sample the object/scene
regularly in the device space. We are seeking to detect, characterize and exploit the regularity
patterns that arise in sampling due to the characteristics of the scanning device, enabling
applications such as efficient compression and watermarking. We're also investigating novel
approaches for rendering such point clouds efficiently.  (read more)  
		  
    	 
       
		

		   
	 
	 
	
	
 
</body> 