 Uninscribable 4-regular polyhedron<body>

 
   
 
  An Uninscribable 4-Regular Polyhedron 

A polyhedron is said to be  inscribable  if it can be drawn with
all its vertices on the unit sphere, and  circumscribable  if it
can be drawn with all faces tangent to the unit sphere.  The geometric
operation of  polarity  replaces one polyhedron by its planar dual,
so that any vertex on the unit sphere is replaced by a dual face tangent
at that point; therefore inscribability and circumscribability are
planar dual concepts of each other.

 How can we test inscribability (or equivalently circumscribability)?
Igor Rivin and
 Warren Smith 
gave a method of transforming the problem into a linear program.  To
test circumscribability, one places weights between 0 and 1/2 on each
edge of the polyhedron, so that the weights on any face add to exactly
one and the weights on any nonfacial cycle add to more than one. If this
can be done, the polyhedron can be circumscribed. The edge weights have
the following interpretation: multiplying each weight by 2pi gives the
angle the edge would take up if viewed from the tangent points on either
adjacent face. Dually, one can inscribe a polyhedron if and only if one
can assign weights so that each vertex's weights add to one and each
nontrivial  cut  (set of edges that separates two subsets of
vertices) adds to more than one. (The meaning of these weights is harder
to describe for inscription, but it can be related to the dihedral
angles in a related problem of finding "ideal polyhedra" in hyperbolic
geometry.) The existence of such a weighting system can be tested by
applying the ellipsoid method for linear programming. However, it
remains an interesting question whether there exists a more direct
combinatorial method to check inscribability or circumscribability.

  We might have more of a chance of finding such a method if we
restrict our attention to special classes of polyhedra. One interesting
special class of polyhedra are the  4-regular  ones, in which each
vertex is adjacent to exactly four edges. Since these graphs are
Eulerian (equivalently, their duals are bipartite), every cut has at
least four edges. There is a natural candidate for a Rivin-Smith
weighting on these graphs: just give every edge weight 1/4. This might
fail to work, if there exists a four-edge cut. However, one can then
modify the weights by adding +epsilon and -epsilon alternately along the
edges of an even-length cycle in the graph; this preserves the correct
weights at the vertices, but might improve the weight of a cut. It turns
out that any one cut can be made to have weight greater than one by such
a procedure, so we might hope that repeating this procedure gives a
correct weighting showing that 4-regular polyhedra are always
inscribable. The only problem might be that making one cut have a better
weight always is balanced by making another cut have a worse weight, so
that no correct weighting exists. Can this happen? Yes!

      

  Mike Dillencourt  and I formed the example
above by replacing four of
the vertices of a cube by gadgets derived from octahedra. To prove that
this is not inscribable, we need to talk about a concept called
"1-supertoughness". This has a scary name, but is actually a pretty
simple concept: an
 n -vertex graph is 1-supertough if, whenever you remove some set
of  k  vertices, the number of components you have left is at most
 k -1.  The example above is not 1-supertough because, if you
remove the four remaining unmodified cube vertices, you get four
components.  What does this have to do with inscribability?  The weights
on the removed vertices must be exactly one each, so the total weight of
the edges between them and the rest of the graph must be exactly
four. However, this means one of the four components must have weight at
most one on the edges connecting it to the removed vertices,
contradicting the assumption that a nontrivial cut has weight more than
one. Therefore no weighting can exist and this polyhedron is not
inscribable.

  The following question remains open: is every 1-supertough 4-regular
graph inscribable?

  References: 

 M. B. Dillencourt. Toughness and Delaunay triangulations.
 Discrete &amp; Computational Geometry , vol. 5, no. 6,
1990, pp. 575-601.

  M. B. Dillencourt and W. D. Smith. A linear-time algorithm for
testing the inscribability of trivalent polyhedra.
 Proc. 8th ACM Symp. Computational Geometry , 1992, pp. 177-185.
 Int. J. Computational Geometry &amp; Applications ,
vol. 5, 1995, pp. 21-36.

  

     
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Last update: .  </body> 