 ACM SIGMOD 2007 Undergraduate Scholarship Program<body>

       

      
     
 
  
  ACM SIGMOD 2007   
   UNDERGRADUATE SCHOLARSHIP
PROGRAM  
   CALL FOR APPLICATIONS
 (DEADLINE: MAY 1, 2007) 

  
   ACM SIGMOD/PODS 2007 CONFERENCE     Beijing, China  
   June 11-14, 2007  
  


 

  

    The  ACM
Special Interest Group on Management of Data  (SIGMOD) wants undergraduate
students who have an interest in database systems to experience the cutting
edge research presented at the  ACM 
SIGMOD / PODS Joint Confs . (Intl. Conf. on Management of Data and Symposium
on Principles of Database Systems). 

 In order to help those undergraduate students
attend the conference, hence encouraging them to pursue a career
related to database research, a scholarship program was introduced by
SIGMOD in 2000 and successfully continued in the following years.
It is worthwhile noting that the program has been of a truly 
international nature. 

    Each scholarship provides up to
US$1,000 to defray conference attendance costs (e.g., travel and
lodging) plus Conference registration.  Awardees will be responsible
for their own travel arrangements, including health insurance if
necessary.  Selected students will be recognized at the  ACM SIGMOD 2007  awards
sessions.
 
  
 
All undergraduate students who have completed
or are enrolled in a database course by the application deadline are
eligible for the scholarship. Note that, for the purpose of
this award, a student is considered 
an undergraduate student if he/she has not yet obtained an BS (or 
equivalent) degree or has obtained that degree on or after December 2006, and 
he/she is not enrolled in a graduate program at the time of the
application.

If the applicant's
school system is "non-traditional", and the applicant consider
him/herself eligible then the committee should be 
contacted before the application is submitted.
 All application materials must be received no later than May 1,
2007 .  Decisions will be sent to the applicants by May 9,
2007. 

   In order to apply for the scholarship,
students must send an email to  sigmod07ugrad AT ics DOT uci DOT edu .  
The subject of the email should be  " &lt;candidate's name&gt; ACM SIGMOD
Scholarship APPLICATION " .  The following information should be
included ( not  attached) in the email in   plain text  . No HTML,
PDF, Postscript or any other type of data will be accepted. 

   
 List all courses (and respective final grades)
taken so far in the undergraduate program as well as current GPA. 
  

 
 List any scholarships, awards or honors earned.  

 
 Current academic status, including number
of years until graduation.  

 
 Professional Organization Affiliations (e.g.,
ACM, SIGMOD, IEEE, Local Chapters, etc.)  

 
 List of publications (if any) and or
non-trivial (e.g., non-course) projects in which the applicant participated.
  

 
 In 100 words or less, write about "why am I
interested in database research and how would I benefit from attending
SIGMOD/PODS 2007."  
  Additionally, the student must have a qualified
person send an email to  sigmod07ugrad AT ics DOT uci DOT edu . 
The subject of the email should be  " &lt;candidate's name&gt; ACM SIGMOD
Scholarship NOMINATION " . The following information should be included
( not  attached) in the email in   plain text   as well (again,
no HTML, PDF, Postscript or any other type of data will be accepted). 

 
  
 Nominator's Name  

 
 University and Position  

 
 Professional Organization Affiliations (e.g.,
ACM, SIGMOD, IEEE, etc.)  

 
 A statement about the relative 
standing (performance-wise) of the nominee at his/her University, in
particular in database courses, and how
far from graduation the nominee is (i.e., what percentage of the program 
has been completed at application time).  

 
 In 100 words or less, justify "why the nominee
deserves to receive this scholarship". 
  
  By sending a nomination, all nominators
explicitly agree to be contacted by the ACM SIGMOD Undergraduate
Scholarship Program Committee to clarify any of the points of his/her
nomination. All applications should be plain text with the proper
subject lines as explained above. Any application that does not
satisfy these conditions may be flagged as junk mail and automatically
discarded without further notification. 

  The decisions made by the ACM SIGMOD 
Undergraduate Scholarship Program Committee will be final. The Committee
also reserves the right to not award the scholarships to any applicant.
We look forward to receiving a large number 
of applications and wish all applicants the best of luck.
 
  

    
 Important information regarding visas:    Please check  this page 
about information related to getting visa to China.  A general
suggestion is to start the process to get a visa to China as earliest
as possible.

    Important Dates : 
   
 Submission Deadline : May 1, 2007, 5 PM, PST  

  
 Notification of results : May 9, 2007  
 
  

    Program Committee   
Magdalena Balazinska, University of Washington, USA  
Alin Dobra, University of Florida, USA  
Claudio Gutierrez, Universidad de Chile, Chile  Chen Li,  UC Irvine, USA (Chair)   
Qiong (Joan) Luo, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, China  
Felix Naumann, Hasso-Plattner-Institut, Potsdam, Germany  
Prasan Roy, IBM Research, India  
Tengjiao Wang, Beijing University, China   

  </body> 