 ModelSim - Getting Started 

 

  A sample project    

  Lab 0     

 The objective of this lab assignment is to get familiar with lab environment
( ModelSim ), and submission procedures. This is also a
good opportunity to ask questions about this course.  

  Specification   

 Specify a device that checks if the input signal is equal to
"0101". The input signal is 4 bits wide and the output signal is one
bit. Write down the truth table, the logical expression, and the circuit
schematic using logic gates with up to 2 inputs. You may choose from AND, NAND,
OR, NOR and NOT gates.  

  Design   

 Your task is to design this module and a test bench to test the
functionality of the module. The template VHDL files for the module (lab0.vhd)
and the test bench (lab0_tb.vhd) have been provided for you. The interface
(ports) is already defined. You need to add code for functionality in both
files to make them work. Do not make any change to the interface.  

 The module (that is, the example entity) has one 4-bit inputs and one 1-bit
output. The interface (ports) is defined as below for the example entity in
lab0.vhd file. - Input  input_ vector    :  in STD_LOGIC_VECTOR(3  downto  0)
- Output  output  : out STD_LOGIC 

  Verification  

 Inside the test bench, you should test your module using various input
combinations. At each specific interval of time (which can be in the order of
some tens of nanoseconds for example), change the inputs, get the output from
the module and compare the result with the expected value to see if it is
correct. In case the result does not match with the expected value, the test
bench should generate an error message. Use the ASSERT statement for reporting
the error message. Note that the entity  example_tb  in
the test bench does not have ports since there are no input and output signals
to it.  

  What you should produce in this lab:   

   A specification for your design, including the
     truth-table and gate-level design. This should be completed on paper.     
   Your VHDL design.     
   Your VHDL test-bench.     
   Screenshots of the waveforms for all in/out signals in
     the design.     
  You are not required to submit anything to EEE for this lab. 

  Getting started:    

 -  Download   lab0.zip 
and unpack it.  
- Open  ModelSim-Altera . 
- Create a new project (File -&gt; New -&gt; Project) by assigning project name
and selecting location for the project. 
- Add existing files lab0.vhd and lab0_tb.vhd to the project. 
- Plug in your code in both the VHDL files. You can come up with your own code,
or use  this module file  and  this test bench file . 
- Change compilation order of the VHDL files if necessary by Compile -&gt;
Compile Order (lab0.vhd should be compiled first followed by lab0_tb.vhd). 
- Compile the VHDL files by Compile -&gt; Compile All. 
- Set up simulation by Simulate -&gt; Simulate ...( here
choose work.lab0_tb as the entity to be simulated). 
- Add signals to waveform view by right click signals in the object view -&gt;
add... -&gt; to wave. - Run simulation by Simulate -&gt; Run -&gt; Run-All.
After some time, stop execution by Simulate -&gt; Break. If there is an error,
a message will be displayed. 

 Good Luck!  

 

</body> 