 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  October 18,  2016
</strong>
 
     UCI News 
      
         Typing while Skyping could compromise privacy</strong>
           By Brian Bell</strong>    Professor Gene Tsudik and Italian researchers find that traditional keyboard sounds can be decoded.
    
                      
 If you type on your desktop or laptop computer’s keyboard while participating in a Skype call, you could be vulnerable to electronic eavesdropping, according to researchers at the University of California, Irvine and in Italy.In a new  study published online at arXiv , they describe a security breach whereby keystroke sounds, or acoustic emanations, can be recorded during a Skype voice or video call and later reassembled as text. 
 “Skype is used by a huge number of people worldwide,” said co-author  Gene Tsudik</strong>, Chancellor’s Professor of computer science at UCI. “We have shown that during a Skype video or audio conference, your keystrokes are subject to recording and analysis by your call partners. They can learn exactly what you type, including confidential information such as passwords and other very personal stuff.” 
 He specified that such an attack is not possible with touch-screen or holographic keyboards and keypads. And since data transfer over Skype is encrypted, it’s extremely difficult for someone who’s not part of a call to pilfer keystrokes. However, he outlined scenarios in which this cybersecurity threat could be all too real. 
 “The interesting thing is that people who talk on Skype are not always friends and do not always have mutual trust,” Tsudik said. “Imagine a call between lawyers on opposite sides of a legal case – or business competitors or diplomats representing different countries.” 
 Security experts have long known of attackers’ ability to capture acoustic signals from typewriters and computer keyboards for nefarious purposes. Various brands of keyboards, from Apple to HP to Logitech, emit distinct sounds. That information combined with some knowledge of a user’s typing style could be enough to allow a spy to re-create whole texts. 
 “It’s possible to build a profile of the acoustic emanation generated by each key on a given keyboard,” Tsudik said. “For example, the T on a MacBook Pro ‘sounds’ different from the same letter on another manufacturer’s product. It also sounds different from the R on the same keyboard, which is right next to T.” 
 He said that if the sound of someone typing is recorded, each keystroke can be analyzed and matched to a key using machine learning techniques. 
 The challenge in such attacks has been finding a way to place a recording device near a victim’s computer keyboard. Now the recording can be done remotely if a person is typing while utilizing a voice-over-internet-protocol application, such as Skype, Google Hangouts or Vonage. 
 The study found that if attackers have some knowledge of the typist’s style and information about the keyboard, they have a 91.7 percent rate of accuracy in guessing a key pressed by the victim. If snoops are oblivious to both the typing style and keyboard, they still have a 41.89 percent chance of identifying which keys are being struck, since the English language has a well-known frequency distribution of letters. 
 “Our work is yet another nail in the coffin of traditional physical keyboards that are common in modern laptop and desktop computers,” Tsudik said. “It clearly shows previously unnoticed privacy dangers of using popular VoIP technologies in conjunction with such keyboards.” 
 The touch-screen keyboards on many smaller devices, such as smartphones and tablets, are not susceptible to these attacks. Laser projection, or holographic, keyboards are also immune. 
 Tsudik’s co-authors on the study are Daniele Lain, a grad student at the University of Padua; Alberto Compagno, a Ph.D. student at the Sapienza University of Rome; and Mauro Conti, an associate professor at the University of Padua. 
  – Story by Brian Bell, originally published on the UCI News  website   
                     Typing while Skyping could compromise privacy    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Times Higher Education  ranks Computer Science 38th in world, 15th in U.S.

              
                Next &gt; 
                 36 ICS students to attend 2016 Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing Conference

             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 