 Computer Science « Degrees « Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences « University of California Irvine<body>


      ?&gt;
   
   
     

         
        
             

                   Degrees  
                      Opportunities  
                      Careers  
                  
        
             
                  
                  
             
        
             

                   Student Life  
                      Admissions  
                      Contact  
                  
        
         

         
        
             

                 Degrees 
 Our broad selection of majors lets you be as specialized or general as you like             
             

             

                   Overview  

      Business Information Management  
      Computer Game Science  
      Computer Science  
      Computer Science &amp; Engineering  
      Data Science  
      Informatics  
      Software Engineering  
      ICS Undeclared Pre-Major  
      Minors   
  
                    
             
      Computer Science 


    
The Computer Science major emphasizes the principles of computing that underlie our modern
world and provides a strong foundational education to prepare students for a broad spectrum of
possible careers in computing. 
  
Students receive a balance of knowledge in low-level computer architecture and systems, 
middle-level infrastructure like programming languages, databases and networks, and high-level 
topics such as artificial intelligence, computer graphics and network security. Students also learn 
about the mathematical and algorithmic foundations that form the basis of modern computing. 
Subsequent courses allow students to concentrate in one or more such directions. 








  








  IS COMPUTER SCIENCE FOR ME?      
 
 
The CS major balances theoretical underpinnings with a strong emphasis on designing, programming and implementing large-scale systems. The curriculum covers the infrastructure of computers and networks, as well as the software that runs them. Students receive a broad view of the field through a comprehensive set of core classes and, through upper-division elective courses, are given the opportunity to specialize in topics such as machine learning, data mining, distributed and embedded systems, and security. The major places a heavy emphasis on “learning by doing” through a wide selection of classes in which students design and build in-depth projects over the course of a 10-week quarter. In addition, students receive a solid background in computer algorithms, which form the basis of modern computing. The major provides many practical skills that can be immediately put to use in the workplace while also giving students a conceptual foundation that will serve them well for the long term in a rapidly evolving field.    
 






  WHAT COURSES DO I TAKE?      
 
 
Current Requirements for the CS major can be found in the  General Catalogue .
   
 









  WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN CS?      
 
 
Graduates of the Computer Science program at UCI will be in a position to pursue a variety of 
careers in high-demand areas such as embedded systems, cloud infrastructure, web services, 
computer security, networking and data mining. They can be principal designers or involved in 
implementation, typically at companies that design, implement and sell or manage products or 
services in such areas. They may find themselves in charge of large-scale deployments and/or 
customizations at the organizations that use them. 
  
The strong scientific preparation also allows students to become involved in such areas as 
high-performance computing, computational biology and neuroscience  — whether in industry or 
graduate school. In fact, many students choose to continue their studies, conducting research and 
earning graduate degrees in fields such as computer science, software engineering or information 
science. A background in computer science is also excellent preparation for careers in management, 
law, finance or consulting. 
   
 










   





             
              
                   Chen Li, associate professor of computer science, and his students created a Web search tool to reunite people after the quake that devastated Haiti.  
                  





                 
                     Share 
                     | 
                      
                      
                      
                      
                 
                 

              

         
        
         
        
             
            
                 Language: </strong>
                 English  |
                 Chinese (Traditional)  |
                 Korean  |
                 Vietnamese             
             
        
             
            
                 University of California, Irvine - Irvine, CA 92697 : 949-824-5011 

                 
                     Comments &amp; Questions  |
                     Privacy &amp; Legal Notice  |
                     Copyright Inquiries  |
                    © 2017 UC Regents
                 

             
            
             
            
                 Site By Crisp 

             
        
         

     
    
</body> 