   
 Newsgroups:      sci.math
 Subject:         bifocals?
 From:             elkies@ramanujan.harvard.edu  (Noam Elkies)
 Date:            20 Sep 92 15:12:26 EDT
 Organization:    Harvard Math Department
 Summary:         does a bifocal curve exist?
   
Say that a point P in the interior of a simple closed curve C in the
plane is a _focal point_ of C if C is starlike w.r.t. P and all the
chords of C passing through P have the same length.

Is it known whether a simple closed curve can have more than one
focal point?

[C is starlike w.r.t. P means every ray from P intersects C in exactly
one point; this is a condition weaker than convexity (though C is
convex iff it is starlike w.r.t. every interior point).  There are
plenty of curves with one focal point.]

--Noam D. Elkies ( elkies@zariski.harvard.edu )
  Dept. of Mathematics, Harvard University
   
 From:             ctm@math.berkeley.edu  (Curtis T. McMullen)
 Newsgroups:      sci.math
 Subject:         Re: bifocals?
 Date:            20 Sep 1992 20:21:39 GMT
 Organization:    U.C. Berkeley Math. Department.
   
Let a *wheel* be a Jordan curve W in the plane.
A chord  for W is a line segment with endpoints on W.
A point p in the plane is an *axle* for W if there
exists an L&gt;0 such that for every w in W,
there is a w' in W such that |w-w'| = L and the segment
[w,w'] contains p in its interior.
Then a less restrictive form of Elkies' question is:

	does there exist a wheel with two axles?

Here are some recollection of my thoughts
on this problem from 1990 or so.
It can be related to dynamical systems as follows.
Let p and q be two (candidate) axles; I think one can show
they both must have the same L, by considering the line
through p and q.  Given a point w, allegedly on the wheel,
one can construct two more points w_1 and w_2 on the wheel by drawing lines
of length L from w through p and w through q.  Repeating this process,
you can make a computer drawing of (lots of) points which must
lie on the wheel W to be consistent with the data (w,p,q,L).
By starting with points w very close to the line through p and q,
you can generate continua which must lie in W.  These continua
tend to be non-locally connected, due to incoherence between
stable and unstable manifolds in this dynamical system
(a well-known phenomena).  I suspect this can be made into a proof
that there is no wheel with two axes.  It should be considerably
simpler with the assumption that the wheel is star-shaped from
p and q.  But perhaps the discussion is "academic", since a solution
of a large portion of the problem appears in:

@article{Schafke:Volkmer,
	key="SV",
	author={R. Sch\"afke and H. Volkmer},
	title="Asymptotic analysis of the equichordal problem",
	journal="J. reine angew. Math.",
	volume="425",year="1992",pages="9-60"}

-Curt McMullen
   
 From:             orourke@whatever.cs.jhu.edu  (Joseph O'Rourke)
 Newsgroups:      sci.math
 Subject:         Equichordal problem
 Date:            9 Jan 91 17:36:34 GMT
 Reply-To:         orourke@cs.jhu.edu  (Joseph O'Rourke)
 Organization:    Smith College, Northampton MA USA
   
A year ago I heard that the equichordal problem had at long last
been solved, but I have not seen the paper.  Does anyone have a
reference?
	The equichordal problem is to determine whether a compact
convex subset S of E^2 might have more than one equichordal point.
A point p is equichordal in S if every chord through p has the same
length.
 
  
 To:               geometry-research@forum.swarthmore.edu 
 Date:            2 Oct 1997 21:55:41 -0400
 From:            Marek Rychlik &lt; rychlik@math.arizona.edu &gt;
 Organization:    Epigone
 Subject:         Re: Equichordal points
   
The best known outstanding problem regarding equichordal points 
has just recently been solved by me (solution published in
Inventiones Mathematicae, 129(1), pp. 141-212, 1997). This problem 
was posed in 1916 by Fujiwara and in 1917 by Blaschke et. al. :

A point P inside a closed convex curve C is called equichordal if    
every chord of C drawn through point P has the same
length. Is there a curve with two equichordal points?

It proves that a curve cannot have two equichordal points. The
assumption of convexity can be significantly weakened, to include all
Jordan curves. For further references my Web site can be consulted:

	 http://alamos.math.arizona.edu 

-Marek Rychlik
  