 Informatics 131 * Assignment 1<body>
    Information and Computer Science  —  UC Irvine  —  David G. Kay  —  Informatics 131   
 
  FIRST HOMEWORK   
   HCI Notebook:  As we discussed the first
day of class, we expect every student this quarter to carry at (nearly)
all times small notebook (as simple as two quarter-folded sheets of paper
or as complex as a hand-held PDA or smartphone).  Whenever you observe a particularly
bad example of interaction design (or a particularly good one), jot down
the details in your notebook.  Often these instances are fleeting and subtle;
you may think you'll remember and write it down later, but chances are
you won't, which is why we want you to carry the notebook and record the details
when they occur.  
 
  (a)  Complete the  Informatics 131 Questionnaire  and do the other items on the syllabus under "What to do to get started…", including signing yourself up at  www.piazza.com.   
   (b)  Pick two different instances of
  bad design from your HCI notebook.  These may involve computer systems or
  any human-created object.  For this part of the assignment, you may pick
  relatively small, simple instances (like the signage in Donald Bren Hall, but don't pick ones we discussed in class). 
  For each,  
  
 Describe the relevant details of the system
(if your system wouldn't be familiar to the typical computer science
student, give enough background description to explain it).    
 
 Explain the problem(s) you encountered, relating
them to failures of usability goals or principles.  (Jakob Nielsen's
usability heuristics are available at    http://www.useit.com/papers/heuristic/heuristic_list.html   .  The same principles are illustrated by Theresa Neil at    http://designingwebinterfaces.com/6-tips-for-a-great-flex-ux-part-5  ). 
  
 Suggest a way to remedy each problem, again
relating each suggestion to the usability goal or principle that it addresses.  
  
 Your description of each instance should be
shorter than one single-spaced page of text (though with illustrations it
may actually span more than one page). You may prepare any standard type of document (Word, plain text, Open Office); please put your name, student ID number, and UCInet ID at the top.  
 
  (c)   Pick a web site somewhere at uci.edu
that you use frequently.  Analyze it as described above, describing its HCI flaws in terms of Nielsen's guidelines, but in somewhat
more detail involving more than one feature or function.  As an upper limit,
don't spend more than an hour exploring the site and making notes, and
don't write more than two single-spaced pages of analysis (which again
may span more pages than that as you include illustrations).  Add this text to the same document you started in part (b).   
 
 Your analysis should address who the intended
users of the site are, what the users want to achieve by using the site,
how the site failed to serve these users and their goals (including, if
applicable, characteristics of the users and their backgrounds that the
site designers didn't understand or accommodate well), and what makes
your suggested improvements better.  
 
 Your analysis should focus on usability issues
rather than pure functionality; while the line is sometimes hard to draw
(adding a search feature, for example, is increased functionality that also
affects the usability of a site), don't try to solve the problems by
making the system into something that it wasn't intended to be.  
   Submitting your work:  Please make sure your name, student ID, and UCInet ID are at the top of your document. Submit your work via  Checkmate  (checkmate.ics.uci.edu). If you're new to Checkmate, here are the instructions: Log in to checkmate.ics.uci.edu with your UCInet ID, choose "Course Listing" for Summer Session 2 2015, click "Go" next to Informatics 131, and then click "List me for this course."  
 
 Written by David G. Kay, Winter 2004, based
on assignments by Alfred Kobsa and Nayla Nassif. Modified Summer 2007, Summer 2008, Summer 2010, Summer 2011, Summer 2012, and Summer 2013 by David G. Kay.   
  
  David G. Kay ,    kay@uci.edu 
 
</body> 