 Alumni from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  Alumni  &gt;    &gt;  Mentoring program  


     
 ICS Alumni 

 
 

   
 You're off campus and on your career path. But you can still make a difference in the Bren School community, whether you've moved down the block, across the country or around the world. For information on involvement opportunites, view the programs below or contact us at  khuerth@ics.uci.edu  or (949) 824-3074. 
    Hall of Fame</strong>  
 In fall 2015, UCI celebrated its 50th anniversary as one of the nation’s leading computer science schools. To honor those alumni who have made a significant impact in their profession or, in other ways, have brought distinction to the School, we created the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Hall of Fame. To learn more about the Hall of Fame and to nominate a fellow ICS alumni, visit the ICS Hall of Fame  website . 
      Class Notes</strong>  
 We're looking for your Class Notes! Whether you have a new job, started a new company or have any other exciting professional or personal news you want to share with other ICS alumni, we want to know. Please submit all of your Class Notes  online  so that we can consider them for the next ICS Annual Report, as well as on social media and our website. 
  
 Stay Connected 
 Do we have your most current email and mailing addresses? To get the latest news about the Bren School, as well as exclusive alumni event invitations, please  click here  to update your contact information.  
 
 ICS Alumni Chapter 
 The Donald Bren School Alumni Chapter welcomes Anteaters interested in leadership and volunteer roles. In addition to networking and alumni outreach, the chapter offers opportunities to get involved with Bren School student groups. To get involved, please contact Kristin Huerth at  khuerth@ics.uci.edu .  
 
  Butterworth Product Development Competition</strong> 
 The Butterworth Product Development Competition encourages the development of new, technically innovative products by ICS graduate and undergraduate students. Formely known as hITEC, this program offers alumni a chance to mentor a team of students as they develop a new product and attempt to enter it into the marketplace.  Learn more  »</strong>  
 
  Undergraduate Mentorship Program</strong> 
 The program, comprised of alumni, community members and industry professionals, forms meaningful relationships with female and other traditionally underrepresented students in the fields of engineering and computer science where they explore career interests, academic guidance and personal development. Learn how to get involved as a mentor  here . 
 


 
 
 
  More alumni » 
   UCI Alumni Association  
  Give a Gift  
  Stay Connected  
  
   Quick Links   
                        
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 