 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  December 16,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         Two ICS Ph.D. students receive 2017 UCI Public Impact Fellowships</strong>
              The fellowships recognize Kathryn Ringland and Nitin Agarwal for having research that has the potential for substantial impact in the public sphere.
    
                    
Computer Science Ph.D. student  Nitin Agarwal</strong> and Informatics Ph.D. student  Kathryn Ringland</strong> were recently named 2017  Public Impact Fellows  by UC Irvine. The fellowships highlight and support doctoral students whose current research has the potential for substantial impact in the public sphere. 
 
  
“This program was developed to support and highlight academically excellent graduate students whose research demonstrates the potential to significantly improve or enrich the lives of people in California and beyond,” said Frances Leslie, UC Irvine’s vice provost for graduate education.
 
  
The competition is open to all schools for a total of 14 fellowships. The 10 selected Public Impact Fellows will each receive their $1,000 fellowship during the winter quarter to help supplement their funding, while four Public Impact Distinguished Fellows will each receive $12,000.
 
  
The application process includes several tiers before a student is nominated. This begins with a nomination by a faculty member to the department, which is then vetted and compared with other nominations, before being forwarded as an official nomination by the school. The Public Impact Fellowship final selection committee then makes the final decision.
 
  
The committee considers several factors when choosing the awardees, including the student's presentation, interview, their ability to convey their research to a broad audience, academic record, letters of recommendation and degree progress. Candidates also must have a GPA of 3.7 or higher and conduct research that has a critical public impact in areas such as health care, social justice or cultural engagement.
 
  
"This fellowship is a validation of my research and a way to publicize the importance of my work," said Agarwal. "Most importantly, this fellowship serves as an inspiration and encouragement for me to carry on understanding the brain and its disorders for the betterment of the society. I am overjoyed and deeply humbled on receiving this honor."

 

  
 About Kathryn Ringland   Kathryn (Kate) Ringland  is currently a Ph.D. candidate in Informatics whose areas of interest include: human-computer interaction, ubiquitous computing, assistive technology, and technology for individuals with autism. She is particularly interested in looking at the collaborative play, embodiment and ways to design accessible technology.
 
  
 About Nitin Agarwal  
Nitin Agarwal is currently a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science and a graduate research assistant in UCI's  Interactive Graphics &amp; Visualization Lab . He is broadly interested in the areas of computer graphics, computational geometry, computer vision, medical image processing and machine learning.





  
  
					





                     Two ICS Ph.D. students receive 2017 UCI Public Impact Fellowships    
                &lt; Previous 
                 ICS alumnus Tim Kashani to be honored at 2017 Lauds &amp; Laurels event
              
                Next &gt; 
                 Kobsa to lead an international team in the study of household IoT users' privacy decisions using process-tracing technology

             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 