 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
 
   Provably good mesh generation .  M. Bern ,
D. Eppstein, and 
 
J. Gilbert .  31st IEEE Symp. Foundations of Comp. Sci., 
St. Louis, Missouri, 1990, pp. 231–241.  J. Comp. Sys. Sci.  48: 384–409, 1994 (special issue for 31st FOCS).
 
In this paper, we construct triangulations of point sets and polygons by
using quadtrees to add extra vertices to the input. As a result we can
guarantee that all triangles have angles bounded
away from zero, using a number of triangles within a constant of
optimal; this was the first paper to provide simultaneous bounds on mesh
element quality and mesh complexity of this form, and therefore the
first to provide finite element mesh generation algorithms that
guarantee both the robustness of the algorithm against unexpected input
geometries and the quality of its output.
  
In the same paper we also use quadtrees to triangulate planar point sets
so that all angles are non-obtuse, using linearly many triangles, and to
triangulate higher dimensional point sets with no small solid angles and
a number of simplices within a constant of optimal.  Also, we can
augment any higher dimensional point set so the Delaunay triangulation
has linear complexity.
  
In later follow-up work, I showed that the same
technique can also be used to find a triangulation whose edges have  total length within a constant factor of
optimal . Bern, Mitchell, and Ruppert
showed that alternative methods can be used to triangulate any polygon
without obtuse angles; see " Faster circle packing
with application to nonobtuse triangulation " for an algorithmic
improvement to their technique. Additionally, with Bern, Chew, and
Ruppert, we showed that  any point set in
higher dimensions can be triangulated with nonobtuse simplices .
Bern and I surveyed these and related results in our paper " Mesh generation and optimal triangulation ".
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 Preliminary copy of journal version  --
 MIT hypertext bibliography  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL (JCSS) )
  
     
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 