 ICS TA Seminar • Winter 2008<body>
  
 
 W INTER  Q UARTER  2008 —   Information and Computer Science  —  UC Irvine   
 
 Teaching Assistant Seminar (ICS 398A)  
 
  C OURSE  S CHEDULE
AND  I NFORMATION    
 
  Instructor:    David G. Kay ,
5056 Donald Bren Hall.  Stop by any time, or send electronic mail to "   kay   ".  
 
  Meeting time and place:   Wednesdays,
10:00 to 11:50 a.m. in ICS 243.  As a two-unit class, ICS 398A will meet
for about 15 hours in total.  
 
  Enrollment information:   All new or
prospective ICS teaching assistants are required to enroll in ICS 398A, which
is offered this year in the fall and winter quarters.  It's ideal to
take ICS 398 in the first quarter you're actually teaching, although that isn't
always possible.  
 
 ICS 398B, the Advanced TA Seminar, is offered
in the spring quarter this year.  ICS 398B covers such issues as designing
assignments, exams, and courses, assigning grades, and other issues in running
your own course; it is valuable for everyone and required for TAs who may
wish to teach their own classes (as many grad students do in summer session
or through University Extension, not to mention in their own academic jobs).
 You don't have to take ICS 398B in Spring 2008; you may take it later
in your career, but you must complete it before you can be appointed as
an instructor in summer session or Extension.  
 
  Course requirements:   This seminar
is not designed to impose a time burden on the participants beyond the class
meetings themselves.  Grading is satisfactory/unsatisfactory or pass/not-pass,
and we ask only that you attend the meetings, participate in the discussions
and activities, give one or two short presentations on material you expect
to be teaching, and arrange through the campus  Teaching, Learning &amp; Technology Center 
(x46188) to be videotaped in your class (whichever quarter you will be teaching).  
  Any benefit you get from this course (unlike most computer science classes, but like most seminars) comes from the in-class discussions and activities. We expect everyone to attend every meeting—that's not asking very much—you may have to miss a meeting (e.g., because you have to travel to a conference), but missing more than one will not be looked on favorably.  
 
  Topics to be covered:   In a seminar
like this, the topics don't all come in a predetermined order.  Over
the course of the quarter we will cover the following, and more:  motivating
students, teaching techniques and styles, grading exams and assignments,
dealing with cheating and problem students, working with faculty, departmental
and university policies.  Most of our time will be devoted to discussion
and hands-on participatory activities.  
 
  Approximate course schedule:   
       
  Week 1    
 
 9 January    
 
 Introductions and overview of university teaching  
   
  Week 2    
 
 16 January    
  Grading policies, practices, philosophies  
   
  Week 3    
 
 23 January    
  TA presentations and presentation strategies  
   
  Week 4    
 
 30 January    
  TA presentations  
   
  Week 5    
 
 6 February   
  Exam grading  
   
  Week 6    
 
 13 February    
  TA presentations  
   
  Week 7    
 
 20 February    
 
    Grading students' programs and projects   Preventing and detecting academic dishonesty     
   
  Week 8    
 
 27 February   
 
    Motivation, problem students, teaching styles
     
    Epilogue and looking ahead     
     Quick resource guide:   
 
 If you don't have an assigned office (or
prefer not to hold your scheduled office hours there), check with David Kay and with your department manager (Mark Cartnal in Computer Science, Marty Beach in Informatics, Rosemary Busta in Statistics) to see if there's another space you can use.  
 
 For information about network-based class
support (class Email lists, home pages, rosters, and so on), see  http://eee.uci.edu .
 Within ICS, we support automatic assignment submission  via  http://checkmate.ics.uci.edu 
(have your instructor contact  checkmate@ics.uci.edu )
and automated detection of plagiarism in prose and code (see  http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/checker.html ).  
 
 For a UCInet ID (an Email account @uci.edu—you'll
need one for access to some EEE features and Checkmate), see  http://activate.uci.edu/ .
 You can redirect Email from this account to another account (@ics.uci.edu,
for example) via the web:  http://www.nacs.uci.edu/email/forward.html .   
   David G. Kay ,  kay@uci.edu 
  
   
  Wednesday, January 2, 2008 6:42 PM
   
 </body> 