 Informatics 223: Applied Software Design Techniques (Spring 2007)<body>

   
       
 	   
	 	 home  | 
		 teaching  |
	   	 research  |
	   	 publications  |
	   	 bio  |
	   	 resume (PDF)  |
	   	 address 
	 	 
	     
   	   	 André van der Hoek 
  	     
         
     
     
       
           
			   
         
       	       
		        projects
	 	         
		           
				 Calico   CodeExchange   Crowd Development   
		         
           
     
		       
			   
         
       	       
		        Graduate students
	 	         
		           
				 Tariq Ibrahim   Thomas Kwak   Lee Martie   
		         
           
     
		     

		 
		   
			   
				 Course Title  
				Informatics 223 
				Applied Software Design Techniques 
				Spring 2007  
				 Professor  
				André van der Hoek  http://www.ics.uci.edu/~andre   andre@ics.uci.edu  
				Office: Donald Bren Hall 5228 
				Phone: +1 949-824-6326   
				 Logistics  
				Location: BH 1423 
				Day and time: Friday, 09:00-11:50
				  
				 Catalogue Description  
				223 Applied Software Design Techniques (4). Study of concepts, representations, techniques, and case studies 
				in structuring software systems, with an emphasis on design considerations. Topics include static and dynamic 
				system structure, data models, abstractions, naming, protocols and application programmer interfaces.
				  
				 Structure  
				The class will be discussion-oriented. Papers must have been read beforehand, and discussion will be 
				seeded by short presentations summarizing the key points of each paper. Presentations will be rotated 
				among those in the class.
				  
				 Case Study  
				Each student will perform a case study by adopting one software system that they will use to illustrate 
				the techniques with concrete examples. Based on the case study, two slides should be prepared weekly that 
				illustrate the findings in the example system.
				  
				 Poster  
				Each student will create a poster, which is based on a new "invention". Specifically, 
				at the end of the quarter each student will present a new technique, a new modeling 
				notation, a new approach, a new tool, or any other new "thing" that they invent as 
				a result of their experience in the class. The technique will not have to be fully 
				demonstrated, but the concept and novelty should be clear from the poster.
				  
				 Grades  
				All students enrolled in the course will earn a letter grade based upon: (a) class 
				attendance and participation, (b) presentation(s) in class, (c) case study slides, 
				and (d) poster.
				  
				 Course Mailing List  
				To send mail:  37190-s07@classes.uci.edu  
				To view the archive:  http://eee.uci.edu/toolbox/mla/message_list.php?ccode=37190&amp;quarter=S07 
				  
				 Students with Disabilities  
				Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation based on the 
				impact of a disability should contact me privately to discuss his or her 
				specific needs.  Also contact the Disability Services Center at 
				(949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to better ensure that such 
				accommodations are implemented in a timely fashion.
				  
				 Copyright  
				The documents below are included to ensure timely dissemination of scholarly
				and technical work on a non-commercial basis and are for the sole use of 
				students enrolled in ICS 223. Copyright and all rights therein are 
				maintained by the authors or by other copyright holders, notwithstanding that 
				they have offered their works here electronically. It is understood that all
				persons copying this information will adhere to the terms and constraints 
				invoked by each author's copyright. These works may not be resposted without
				the explicit permission of the copyright holder.
				  
				 Schedule 
				    
					 Week 
					 
					 
					 Date 
					 
					 
					 Topic 
					 
					 
					 Papers 
					 
				       
					1
					 
					 
					April 6
					 
					 
					Welcome
					 
					 
					 
				     
					2
					 
					 
					April 13
					 
					 
					Design &amp; Abstraction
					 
					 
					Spector &amp; Gifford:  Case Study: A Computer Science Perspective on Bridge Design  
					Taylor &amp; van der Hoek:  Software Design and Architecture: The Once and Future Focus of Software Engineering  
					Kramer:  Is Abstraction the Key to Computing? 					
					 
				     
					3
					 
					 
					April 20
					 
					 
					No lecture - André at ATL
					 
					 
					 
				     
					4
					 
					 
					April 27
					 
					 
					Models &amp; UML
					 
					 
					Seidewitz:  What Models Mean  
					Fowler:  UML Distilled: A Brief Guide to the Standard Object Modeling Language (third edition)  
					Bell:  Death by UML Fever 
					 
				     
					5
					 
					 
					May 4
					 
					 
					Architecture
					 
					 
					Hatcliff, Deng, Dwyer, Jung &amp; Ranganath:  Cadena: An Integrated Development, Analysis, and Verification Environment for Component-based Systems  
					Allen, Douence &amp; Garlan:  Specifying and Analyzing Dynamic Software Architectures  
					Rakic &amp; Medvidovic:  Increasing the Confidence in Off-the-Shelf Components: A Software Connector-based Approach 
					 
				     
					6
					 
					 
					May 11
					 
					 
					Patterns
					 
					 
					Lea:  Christopher Alexander: An Introduction for Object-Oriented Designers  
					Gamma, Helm, Johnson, Vlissides:  Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software  
					Garlan, Allen, Ockerbloom:  Exploiting Style in Architectural Design Environments 
					 
				     
					7
					 
					 
					May 18
					 
					 
					Data Models
					 
					 
					Capriero &amp; Gelernter:  Linda in Context  
					Conklin:  Hypertext: An Introduction and Survey  
					van der Hoek, Carzaniga, Heimbigner &amp; Wolf:  A Testbed for Configuration Management Policy Programming 
					 
				     
					8
					 
					 
					May 25
					 
					 
					No lecture - André at ICSE
					 
					 
					 
				     
					9
					 
					 
					June 1
					 
					 
					Naming
					 
					 
					Berners-Lee, Fielding &amp; Masinter:  Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI): Generic Syntax
  
					Carzaniga, Rosenblum &amp; Wolf:  Design and Evaluation of a Wide-Area Event Notification Service  					
					Musen:  Domain Ontologies in Software Engineering: Use of Protégé with the EON Architecture 
					 
				     
					10
					 
					 
					June 8
					 
					 
					Standardization
					 
					 
					Thau:  Design considerations for the Apache Server API  and 
					 Apache API Notes  
					Whitehead &amp; Goland:  WebDAV: A network protocol for remote collaborative authoring on the Web  
					Hanseth, Monteiro &amp; Hatling:  Developing Information Infrastructure: The Tension Between Standardisation and Flexibility 
					 
				     
					Finals week
					 
					 
					June 13, 9-11am
					 
					 
					Poster Presentations
					 
					 
					 
				     
			     
		     
        	     
		   
			   
         
 			   
                 
                  
	 	         
		         
           
     
		       
			   
         
       	       
		        contact
	 	         
		           
				email  andre@ics.uci.edu   
				skype  awvanderhoek   
				aim  AW van der Hoek 
	 	         
		         
           
     
		     


	     
    </body> 