 hitec guidelines @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  Events  &gt;  hITEC  


     
 hITEC guidelines 

 
 

  Eligibility</strong> 
 All full-time UC Irvine students who are registered with the university for the entire academic year are eligible to enter the competition.  
 Individuals who do not meet this requirement may be part of an existing team provided at least two (2) of the competitors on the team are current UCI students.  
 At least one of the team members must be an ICS student. Teams must have a minimum of three (3) members and not exceed a maximum of six (6) members. Teams must be led by a current UC Irvine student.  
 To participate in the competition, you must register online.  
 Once registered, teams will be assigned industry/faculty mentors according to the criteria delineated in the registration form. 
 Teams can independently identify and secure an industry and/or faculty mentor for the competition. 
  Forming a Team/Obtaining Additional Team Members</strong> 
 Searching for team members? Attend the graduate student Matrix Mixer on October 15 or the undergraduate student mixer on October 29.  
 Students working to form a team or add team members also are encouraged to use the  hITEC forum  as a resource.  
 In addition, interested participants will have one last chance to find team members at the competition kickoff even in January. 
  Refining a Product Idea</strong> 
 Teams are encouraged to meet with our volunteer experts  to refine their ideas prior to their first competition submission.  
 Luis Vasquez, Director of OCTANe's LaunchPad program, is available Thursday afternoons in the Calit2 building, office 4106. Or email him at  luis.vasquez@octaneoc.org .  
 Teams also can contact  Tech Coast Works  CEO       Jeff Greenberg .  
  Workshops</strong> 
 The Merage School of Business offers an extensive array of workshops related to both competitions.  
 Additionally, students have access to most OCTANe workshops free of charge by signing up with  OCTANe Next.  
 Students are also encouraged to view the  hITEC overview presentation .  
  Team Integrity</strong> 
 Once the Preliminary Product Description has been submitted, 50% of the team must remain intact for the rest of the competition.  
 100% of the team must remain intact after submitting the Preliminary Product Specifications. 
  Product Plan/Idea</strong> 
 Teams must present an original idea.   
 The product/idea must not be backed by incubators, existing companies, venture capitalists or other investors.  
 Teams or team members that have received any form of venture capital financing for their competition entry plan or a likeness thereof may not participate in the competition.  
 Any team receiving venture capital funding while participating in the competition will be disqualified. 
  Documents and Demos</strong> 
 Documents should be single spaced with a font size between 10 and 12 points.  
 Demos are required for the final phase of the competition.  
 Teams will have a chance to present their projects and demos in front of a panel of judges during that time. 
  Awards</strong> 
 Cash awards will be given to the top three teams.  
 The first three teams will automatically qualify as finalists in the Merage School Business Plan Competition for a chance to win additional prizes and the chance to present to a VC company and potentially receive funding up to $1 million.  
 Please note in order to advance to the  Stradling Yocca Carlson &amp; Rauth Business Plan Competition,  the team must include a student from the Merage School (either an MBA or BIM student).  
  In addition, all teams receiving an award will qualify to participate as a sponsor in Project ICS in order to help develop their products. Project ICS submissions must occur within the academic year immediately following the competition (certain restrictions apply).  
  Judging Guidelines</strong> 
 The judges are professionals who come from various backgrounds. 
 Judges are experts in the process of starting a business including business plan developments, or in the technologies the students are developing.  
 The judges consider many different criteria when evaluating concept papers and the business plans.  
 Some of the elements that are considered are: 
  Does the technological/design innovation provide a sustainable, competitive advantage? 
 Does a competitive advantage exist over other products in this application? 
 Does the functionality satisfy the application? 
 Is there a significant return on investment to user? 
 Is the product description clear, detailed and descriptive? 
 Is there a market need for this product? 
 Has the user been realistically identified? 
 Are the benefits to the user clear and sufficient to result in purchase? 
 Have specific user interfaces been provided?  
 Is the user interface well described?  
 Are the requirements thorough, realistic and accurate? 
 Is there a block diagram?  
 Have all of the major modules been described in detail?
			     
  
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
 More hITEC » 
   Guidelines  
  Format  
  Timeline  
  Team
 registration  
  Recruit
 forum  
  Mentor
 signup  
  Forms  
  2009
 winners  
  2008
 winners  
  hITEC Sponsors » 
   Northwind Ventures  
  Printronix  
 Ted and Janice Smith 
   
   Quick Links   
                        
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 