 Emily Navarro<body>  Course Title   ICS 139W     Critical Writing on Information Technology  Spring 2014      Professor   
Emily Navarro 
http://www.ics.uci.edu/~emilyo 
emilyo@uci.edu   Teaching Assistant   Scott Godfrey (sgodfrey@uci.edu). Scott will devote some of the scheduled discussion section time to individual consultations; he will also be available at other times to be arranged by appointment (generally before or after class).   Logistics  
Lecture Location: ICS 180 
Lecture Day and Time: Tuesday and Thursday, 5:00-6:20pm  Discussion Location: 9-9:50: ICS 259; 10-10:50: DBH 1423  Discussion Day and Time: Wednesday 9-9:50 or Wednesday 10-10:50   Catalogue Description  
Study and practice of critical writing and oral communication as it applies to information technology. Each student writes assignments of varying lengths, totaling at least 4,000 words. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement. Restriction: Upper-division students only.   Office Hours  
Emily: By appointment (generally before or after lecture)  Scott: By appointment (generally before or after discussion)   Course Materials:  
Every student in the course should have:   An English dictionary and thesaurus (online is fine). (Remember that a thesaurus doesn't give the connotations or appropriate contexts for the synonyms it lists.) 
   A writing guide, such as UCI's  Anteater Guide to Writing  or some more comprehensive work that can answer your mechanical questions. The   UCI Writing Center   has a large set of   resources  , mostly on line. 
      Course Mailing List  
To send mail: 36734-S14@classes.uci.edu 
To view the archive:   https://eee.uci.edu/classmail/s14/36734/     Course Goals   This course is designed to help you become comfortable writing technical documents for a variety of audiences. You will also be required to give brief presentations to your peers with PowerPoint presentations. You will write several papers, and give a series of short presentations.  This course satisfies UCI's upper division writing requirement, which gives students the opportunity to do writing in ways that are specific to their own academic disciplines, guided by faculty from that discipline rather than from English.   Grades  
To successfully pass this course, you must earn a grade of C or better. All students enrolled in the course will earn a letter grade based upon: (a) class attendance and participation, (b) assignments, (c) presentations.  
Grade distribution will be as follows:   Writing Assignments:    
    "Writing Instructions:" 10% 
     "Influencing Policy:" 15% 
     "Changing the System Introductory Tutorial:" 15% 
     "Changing the System Proposal:" 20% 
     "Changing the System Promo Piece:" 5% 
     Résumé and cover letter: 5% 
     Three to five smaller in-class exercises: 10% 
     Class attendance and participation, including three or four oral presentations: 20% 
        In general we will assign scores on a 100-point scale, with 95 a clear A, 85 a clear B, and below 70 not of passing quality (i.e., below C). It is possible but not guaranteed that the cutoffs for course letter grades of A and B will be assigned more leniently; that is, an overall score of 89% might receive an A or A-.     There will be no exams.     We're required to say that in unusual circumstances, these criteria could change, but we do not expect that to happen.      Further Explanation of Assignments/Grading:   Dr. Kay's   "Writing Assignment Requirements"   contains writing and formatting guidelines that we will encourage you to use this quarter. Failure to follow them may affect your grade. Please re-consult the guidelines whenever you start a new assignment.         Academic Dishonesty   Academic Dishonesty will not be tolerated in any shape or form. You will be held responsible for any and all actions whether they were performed indirectly (i.e. you left your computer unmonitored, someone stole your password, you left a printed version of your work in the lab). Remember, the burden of proof is on you. The staff must solely determine that academic dishonesty has occurred, and hope that those responsible will own up to their actions. In cases where neither student admits their participation, both will receive the same sanctions on a course-level (Note: campus-wide sanctions are determined by the Associate Dean of your department). Cheating will be detected by TurnItIn.com. Please note that instances of academic dishonesty will be reflected in the final grade because dishonesty devalues the learning experience for the whole class.      Students with Disabilities  
Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation based on the impact of a disability should contact me privately to discuss his or her specific needs. Please also contact the Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to better ensure that such accommodations are implemented in a timely fashion.   Assignment Submission   All assignments listed below must be submitted in two ways (on paper at the start of class and via eee dropbox), with these exceptions:   Of course the Email message listed below should not be submitted any other way. 
   The assignments marked "oral" do not entail any other submission (though most of them have related parts that  do  have to be submitted in multiple ways; those parts are all listed separately). 
      Late Policy    	 • 	 Hard copy submissions: All assignments are due AT THE BEGINNING of class on the due date. Assignments turned in after the first five minutes of class on a due date will have 25% of the possible points for that revision deducted from the grade for that revision. Assignments not turned in by the time the professor or TA leaves at the end of class will not be accepted.   	 • 	 Electronic submission: All late submissions turned in after the deadline, up to the end of the day, will result in 10% being deducted from the possible points for that revision. All submissions turned in after the end of the day will result in 25% being deducted from the grade for that revision.   	 • 	 In-class assignments: All students coming in after the activity has started will receive a 50% deduction of points for the assignment. Students more than 15 minutes late will receive a 0 for that assignment.   	 • 	 In-class presentations: Any student who is not in attendance when their name is called to give their presentation will receive a 0 for the presentation.   	 • 	 Exceptions will be made for valid emergencies when a student shows proper documentation (e.g., a doctor's note, a police report, etc.)      Schedule   Note: This schedule is subject to change. You are required to complete all assigned work before each class.        
          Week  
       
       
          Date  
       
       
          Topic  
       
       
          Item(s) Due  
       
       
         1 
       
       
         April 1 (Lec.) 
       
       
           Lecture 1  : Course Introduction;   System Change   assignment overview;   Writing Instructions   assignment overview 
       
       
           
       
       
           
       
       
         April 2 (Disc.) 
       
       
         Consultation on "Changing System" topics and "Writing Instructions" 
       
       
           
           
       
       
           
       
       
         April 3 (Lec.) 
       
       
           In-class writing sample   
       
       
         "  Changing System  " Email to Scott 
         (sgodfrey@uci.edu) 
           
       
       
         2 
       
       
         April 8 (Lec.) 
       
       
           Lecture 2  : Oral presentation techniques; 
         "  Influencing Policy  " assignment overview; In-class writing on PowerPoint articles 
       
       
          Read   Tufte's "PowerPoint is Evil"    
          Read   Doumont's "Slides Are Not All Evil"    
       
       
           
       
       
         April 9 (Disc.) 
       
       
         Using other peoples' writing 
           
       
       
         "  Writing Instructions  " (draft, 3 copies) 
       
       
           
       
       
         April 10 (Lec.) 
       
       
         Oral synopsis of system changes 
       
       
         "Changing System" synopsis (oral) 
       
       
         3 
       
       
         April 15 (Lec.) 
       
       
           Group editing of letter influencing policy   
       
       
          "  Influencing Policy  " (draft)  
         "Writing Instructions" (final) 
       
       
           
       
       
         April 16 (Disc.) 
       
       
           Group editing of introductory tutorials   
       
       
         "Changing System" intro (draft) 
       
       
           
       
       
         April 17 (Lec.) 
       
       
         Oral tutorial introduction to system 
       
       
         "Changing System" intro (oral) 
       
       
         4 
       
       
         April 22 (Lec.) 
       
       
         Oral tutorial intro to system continued 
       
       
         "Influencing Policy" (revised) 
       
       
           
       
       
         April 23 (Disc.) 
       
       
         Consultation hour 
       
       
           
       
       
           
       
       
         April 24 (Lec.) 
       
       
         Lecture 3: Résumés and cover letters    (Guest Lecture) 
           Slide Deck 1   
           Slide Deck 2   
       
       
         "Changing System" intro (final) 
       
       
         5 
       
       
         April 29 (Lec.) 
       
       
           Group editing of résumés/cover letters   
       
       
         Résumé/cover letter (draft, 2 copies) 
       
       
           
       
       
         April 30 (Disc.) 
       
       
         Consultation hour 
       
       
           
       
       
           
       
       
         May 1 (Lec.) 
       
       
           Group editing of change proposals   
           
       
       
         "Changing System" proposal (draft with slides) 
       
       
         6 
       
       
         May 6 (Lec.) 
       
       
         Personality assessments 
         Defining Quality 
       
       
         "Influencing Policy" (final) 
           
       
       
           
       
       
         May 7 (Disc.) 
       
       
         Consultation hour 
       
       
           
       
       
           
       
       
         May 8 (Lec.) 
       
       
           Lecture 4  : The nature and structure of language 
       
       
         "Changing System" proposal (revised with slides) 
       
       
         7 
       
       
         May 13 (Lec.) 
       
       
           Lecture 5  : Three Laws of Professional Communication; Typography, illustration, and data visualization 
       
       
         Résumé/cover letter (final) 
       
       
           
       
       
         May 14 (Disc.) 
       
       
         Testing of PowerPoint files 
       
       
           
       
       
           
       
       
         May 15 (Lec.) 
       
       
           Oral proposal of change    to decision-makers  
       
       
         "Changing System" proposal (oral) 
       
       
         8 
       
       
         May 20 (Lec.) 
       
       
         Oral proposals (continued once) 
       
       
           
       
       
           
       
       
         May 21 (Disc.) 
       
       
         Consultation hour 
       
       
           
       
       
           
       
       
         May 22 (Lec.) 
       
       
         Oral proposals (continued twice) 
       
       
           
       
       
         9 
       
       
         May 27 (Lec.) 
       
       
         Oral proposals (continued thrice) 
       
       
         "Changing System" proposal (final) 
       
       
           
       
       
         May 28 (Disc.) 
       
       
         Consultation hour 
       
       
           
       
       
           
       
       
         May 29 (Lec.) 
       
       
           Group editing of promotion pieces   
       
       
         "Changing System" promo (draft) 
       
       
         10 
       
       
         June 3 (Lec.) 
       
       
         Oral promotion of change to users 
       
       
         "Changing System" promo (final) 
         "Changing System" promo (oral) 
       
       
           
       
       
         June 4 (Disc.) 
       
       
         Consultation hour 
       
       
           
       
       
           
       
       
         June 5 (Lec.) 
       
       
         Lecture 6: Epilogue 
       
       
          Extra credit: Personal statement  
       
       </body> 