 press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Press releases  


     
 Press release 

 
 





  March 12,  2015</strong>  SCSIM, UC Irvine partner to strengthen research and collaboration among  IT industry</strong>  






 

  
IRVINE, Calif. — March 12, 2015 — The Southern California Chapter of the Society for 

Information Management (SCSIM) and the University of California, Irvine’s (UCI) Henry 

Samueli School of Engineering and Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences 

School have announced a strategic partnership between the organizations.

  

The strategic partnership will strengthen collaborations between the state-of-the-art researchers 

at UCI and corporate leaders in IT and technology organizations. The organizations envision 

jointly sponsored activities as well as closer collaborations around performing and evaluating 

research, assessing industry trends and needs and facilitating talent acquisition. 

  

“Our faculty need input from companies regarding industry trends and needs. We anticipate this 

relationship will benefit both UCI and SCSIM members” said Dean Washington of the Henry 

Samueli School. Dean Stern of the Donald Bren School agrees: “our faculty, especially in areas 

like big data and cybersecurity, benefit from testing out our concepts on real data and live use 

cases. The partnership benefits both stakeholders.”

  

“We are tremendously excited to have UCI as a partner. UCI is known as world class creator 

and incubator of technology driven capabilities and of top talent. Forging this bond with UCI 

creates a mutually beneficial environment for companies and the schools. SCSIM member 

organizations stand to benefit from insight into leading edge research and capabilities and access 

to terrific students, while offering real world challenges for these UCI researchers to test their 

hypotheses against,” commented Brandon Johnson, SCSIM chairperson.



  

 About the Society for Information Management   

Since 1969, SIM has represented and inspired the most prestigious IT leaders in the industry.  

Highly regarded as the premier IT leadership network, SIM is a community of thought leaders 

drawn primarily from the ranks of senior IT executives and renowned academics. For more 

information, visit  www.scsim.org .


  
 About The Henry Samueli School of Engineering at UC Irvine   

Founded in 1965, the Samueli School of Engineering educates more than 4,000 engineers each 

year with an integrative approach that blends fundamentals, research and hands-on experience. 

The school’s mission is to unleash innovation, create opportunities and inspire ingenuity. The 

Samueli School’s faculty members are leaders in their disciplines who have achieved worldwide 

recognition for their research and dedicated teaching. The school includes five academic 

departments: biomedical engineering; chemical engineering and materials science; civil and 

environmental engineering; electrical engineering and computer science; and mechanical and 

aerospace engineering. For more information, visit  www.eng.uci.edu . 


  
 About the UC Irvine Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences   

As the only computing-focused school in the University of California system, the Donald Bren 

School of Information and Computer Sciences provides computer science and information 

technology leadership for the 21st century through its innovative and broad curricula, research 

and development of emerging technologies, and collaborations to address societal concerns. The 

Donald Bren School’s three departments—computer science, informatics and statistics—serve to 

reshape domains as far reaching as education, art and entertainment, business and law, the 

environment and biological systems, healthcare and medicine. To learn more, visit:

 www.ics.uci.edu .

   
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 