 News Archives - Page 2 of 2 - Software Engineering and Analysis Lab (SEAL) 
 
	
	 
			  Software Engineering and Analysis Lab (SEAL)  

			 
				 Search 
			 

			
				 Skip to content 
				    About SEAL  
  Members  
  Publications  
  Research Projects  
  Tools  
  Blog  
  			 

		 
			 
				
				 
					 Search for: 
					 
							 
		 
	 

	 

			
			 Category Archives: News 

							 
			  News  
		 
		  Riyadh defended his PhD thesis  
		 
			  May 21, 2015      Sam   		 
	 
			 
	
	 
	  

	
	 
			  News  
		 
		  A Study on the Role of Software Architecture in the Evolution and Quality of Software — MSR 2015  
		 
			 
				 Image 
			 

			  May 20, 2015      Sam   
			
					 
	 
		 Conventional wisdom suggests that a software system’s architecture has a significant impact on its evolution. Prior research has studied the evolution of software using the information of how its files have changed together in their revision history. No prior study, however, has investigated the impact of architecture on the evolution of software from its change history. This is mainly because most open-source software systems do not document their architectures. We have overcome this challenge using several architecture recovery techniques. We used the recovered models to examine if co-changes spanning multiple architecture modules are more likely to introduce bugs than co-changes that are within modules. The results show that the co-changes that cross architectural module boundaries are more correlated with defects than co-changes within modules, implying that, to improve accuracy, bug predictors should also take the software architecture of the system into consideration. 
 Read more about this topic in our  recent publication . 
	 

	  featured   
			  News  
		 
		  EcoDroid: An Approach for Energy-Based Ranking of Android Apps — GREENS 2015  
		 
			  May 16, 2015      Sam   		 
	 
		 The ever increasing complexity of mobile apps comes with a higher energy cost, creating an inconvenience for users on batter-constrained mobile devices. At the same time, due to the meteoric rise of the numbers apps provisioned on app repositories, there are often multiple apps from the same category (e.g., weather, dictionary) that provide similar features. In spite of similar functionality, the apps may present very different energy costs, due to the choices made in their design and construction. Given apps with similar features, users would prefer an app with the least energy cost. However, app repositories are currently lacking information about relative energy cost of apps in a given category, forcing the users to blindly choose an app for installation without a clear understanding of its energy implications. To address this issue, we have developed EcoDroid, an approach that ranks apps from the same category based on their energy consumption. To that end, EcoDroid uses both static and dynamic analyses to estimate energy consumption of apps in the same category and rank them accordingly. Our initial experiments have demonstrated the ability of EcoDroid in accurately ranking the energy cost of multiple apps from a particular category. 
 Read more about this topic in our  recent publication . 
	 
	
	 
	  

	
	 
			  News  
		 
		  EvoDroid: Segmented Evolutionary Testing of Android Apps — FSE 2014  
		 
			 
				 Image 
			 

			  November 18, 2014      Sam   
			
					 
	 
		 Proliferation of Android devices and apps has created a demand for applicable automated software testing techniques. Prior research has primarily focused on either unit or GUI testing of Android apps, but not their end-to-end system testing in a systematic manner. We present EvoDroid, an evolutionary approach for system testing of Android apps. EvoDroid overcomes a key shortcoming of using evolutionary techniques for system testing, i.e., the inability to pass on genetic makeup of good individuals in the search. To that end, EvoDroid combines two novel techniques: (1) an Android-specific program analysis technique that identifies the segments of the code amenable to be searched independently, and (2) an evolutionary algorithm that given information of such segments performs a step-wise search for test cases reaching deep into the code. Our experiments have corroborated EvoDroid’s ability to achieve significantly higher code coverage than existing Android testing tools. 
 Read more about this topic in our  recent publication . 
	 

	  featured   Posts navigation 
		 
			 ← Previous 
 1 
 2 		 
	 
	 
			 Recent News 		  
				 HaCkEd By RxR HaCkEr 
							 June 13, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Nariman Mirzaei defended his PhD thesis 
							 June 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Reyhaneh Jabbarvand advanced to candidacy 
							 May 27, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Practical, Formal Synthesis and Automatic Enforcement of Security Policies for Android — DSN 2016 
							 May 6, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Eric Yuan defended his PhD thesis 
							 May 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Ehsan Kouroshfar defended his PhD thesis 
							 May 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Energy-Aware Test-Suite Minimization for Android Apps — ISSTA 2016 
							 April 18, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Reducing Combinatorics in GUI Testing of Android Applications — ICSE 2016 
							 December 20, 2015 
						 
					 
				 Move to UC Irvine 
							 July 1, 2015 
						 
					 
				 Detection of Design Flaws in the Android Permission Protocol through Bounded Verification — FM 2015 
							 June 24, 2015 
						 
				  
 
		 University of California, Irvine 
	
		 
		   
		
				 
					 Search for: 
					 
				 
	 

		 

		 
								 Proudly powered by WordPress 
			 
		 

	</body> 