 File Sharing Policy<body>        With the advent of telecommunications technologies,especially the Internet, there is wider, cheaper, and faster access thanever before to information in every form--text, audio, graphics, video. This broad, easy access raises conflicts with the legal rights of informationcreators to try to derive a profit from their creations.    In the area of music distribution, for example,it is common practice for people to share and distribute copyrighted musicacross computer networks without the permission of the copyright owners. At least according to reports in the news media, this practice has flourishedon college campuses, perhaps due to the common availability of high-bandwidthnetwork access.    Most universities (including UCI) addressthis issue with a policy that says, in essence, "Obey the law." A few, such as Penn State, make obeying the law easier by purchasing acampuswide license granting students permission to share music within certainlimits.  (UCI, in fact, does this too--not for music, but for newspapersand other publications.)    At    http://eee.uci.edu/help/student/copyright/   you can see a letter explaining UCI's policy.  Penn State's policyis described at    http://napster.psu.edu/     .    What should UCI's policy be?  For thisassignment, you will write a letter to Manuel N. Gomez, UCI's Vice Chancellorfor Student Affairs.  You will recommend a file sharing policy for the campusand justify why your recommended policy is better than the alternatives.    You should consider all the stakeholders andhow your proposed policy will affect them.  Your recommendations shouldbe practical, not just wishful; you can't just say "change thepolicy to let anyone copy anything," for example, because both theuniversity and the individual copiers would be subject to serious legalliability.  Note, too, that especially with budget cuts, having the universitypay for something means that something else will probably have to be cutor else additional revenue will have to be raised.  You might also wishto consider more broadly what kinds of information should be made easilyavailable to students; perhaps electronic versions of textbooks would bea better service than music, for example.    You may support the current UCI policy orpropose changes to it.  You should make focused and specific recommendationsrather than just complaining about existing problems or proposals.  Youshould not try to suggest the precise legal wording of any policy you propose,but you should describe clearly what effect you want to achieve and whythat effect is the best balance of the various stakeholders' concerns. Your recommendations should be grounded in what you know about computerscience and about copyright law and the legal system as a whole; it isn'trealistic, for example, to propose that copyright simply not apply to electronicinformation.    As always, there is no single "correctposition" to take on these issues.  Think about the issues carefullyand form your own opinion; it's much easier to write about somethingyou actually believe than to try to fake it.  On the other hand, you mustapproach your recommendations with enough objectivity to understand theopposing point of view and deal with those arguments in a reasoned way.     Stage I:  Report on your approach (outlinedue May 18)     First, read the relevant selections in thecourse reading list and the policies referred to above.  Feel free to followup with other news stories and other information on the Web (but be carefulto evaluate the authority and credibility of your sources).    Next, decide on the policy you will recommend. You won't include a full stakeholder analysis in the letter you write,but you should still do one yourself to help inform your recommendations.    Then write a one- or two-sentence descriptionof the policy you're recommending, followed by a half-page to one-pageoutline (single-spaced) that gives the reasoning and arguments supportingyour recommendation.     As usual, this is the stage at which you needto do much of the work, even though the "deliverable" is short.    To get credit for this assignment, every studentis required to meet with Shubha Tandon, the TA in charge of this assignment. She will set up a schedule of meetings around the due date.  Be sure tokeep the paper copy of your approved outline; you will need to turn it inwith the draft and final versions.    This outline is due electronically to Checkmateby Tuesday, May 18; the paper copy is due at your meeting with Shubha.     Stage II:  Write your letter (due May 27)     Second, write your letter, following youroutline and the TA's suggestions.    Your letter should be at least three and atmost five double-spaced pages in 10- or 12-point type.  You can use a simplememorandum form with four lines at the top:  the date, "To:","From:", and "Subject".  Don't have a huge headerthat takes up half the first page.    Note that a letter to a policy maker is differentfrom a research paper:  This letter is shorter, it won't cite researchsources as completely and meticulously [though you still should cite crediblesources to document the assertions you make], and it will recommend to therecipient a particular course of action and address explicitly the reasonswhy the recipient should take that action.    Remember, though, that this is an academicexercise and should reflect your "academic voice" (semi-formallanguage and correct spelling, grammar, and punctuation).  Writing thatdoesn't follow the standards for academic communication (e.g., callingone side or the other names, like "greedy corporations" or "studentpirates") diminishes the effectiveness of your argument.      This version will be graded; the TA will makecomments and suggest improvements.  Your grade for this part will count30% of your grade on the whole assignment, so it pays to do as well as youcan at this point.  On Thursday, May 27, turn in:     at the beginning of class, both your letterand your graded outline (stapled or clipped together), and      by class time or right afterwards, an electroniccopy of your letter to Checkmate.     Be sure to keep the paper copy of your gradeddraft letter; you will turn it in again with the final version.     Stage III:  Revise your letter (due June10)     Your final, revised letter should take intoaccount the TA's comments.  It should be about the same length (i.e.,the same number of words) as your previous version (unless the TA said tolengthen or shorten it), but this final version should be single-spacedlike a real letter (so of course it will fill one and a half to two pages). This final letter will count 70% of the grade on the whole assignment.     On June 10, turn in:     at the beginning of class, your final letter,the graded previous version, and your graded outline (all stapled or clippedtogether), and      by class time or right afterwards, an electroniccopy of your final letter to Checkmate.     The June 10 date, even more than the others,is firm; please plan to turn in what you have completed on that date.     Other important advice:   Assume thatVice Chancellor Gomez knows at least the basics about copyright law andabout computer technology; don't waste space writing a tutorial.  Focusinstead on what policy you propose, what effects you think that policy willhave on the major stakeholdes, why it will have those effects, and why thoseeffects are good.     Your grade will depend on how well you informyourself of the relevant issues, state the goals you wish to achieve, determinea realistic approach or proposal that achieves your goal, craft an argumentor justification supporting your approach, support your argument with citationsfrom credible sources, and express yourself clearly, completely, and succinctly.    Going back to read the general advice on the voting assignment sheet would be a good idea. In particular, be careful to distinguish fact frompredictions of the future or opinions (either your own or ones you cite). Also don't forget the other guidelines on the  " Writing Assignment Requirements "sheet.    It will help if you plan actually to  send your letter, rather than treating it simply as a classroom exercise.  Thiswill help you do a better job by making the whole process more concrete.   </body> 