 News | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems | Page 6 
 
		   

			  Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  
			 Bren School of Information and Computer Science 			
			 University of California, Irvine 
			  
		   
			  Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  
			 University of California, Irvine 
		 Menu 
			  Skip to content  

			    Home  
  About CML 
   About us  
	  News  
	  Contact Us  
  
  People 
   Faculty  
	  Alumni  
  
  Events &amp; Seminars 
   AI/ML Seminar Series  
	  ML Reading Group  
  
  Education &amp; Resources 
   Courses  
	  Books  
  
  UCI Machine Learning Archive  
  Sponsors &amp; Funding  
  Subscribe to CML List  
  		 

		
			 
					 News 				 
							  Center Member Applies Machine Learning to Large Hadron Collider  				 Standard 			 
		 Along with six other UCI faculty members, Center member Daniel Whiteson, an assistant professor in physics &amp; astronomy, is playing a key role in the  Large Hadron Collider , the worldﾒs most powerful particle accelerator.  Whiteson’s primary role is to ensure that data acquisition operates smoothly over 2,000 computers operating in parallel.  Whiteson’s research includes the use of machine learning techniques to sift through huge amounts of proton-proton collision data, in order to look for evidence of the Higgs boson or other fundamentally new particles.   
			 
	
	 September 2, 2008 		
		
			  Distinguished Speaker Series for 08-09 Announced  				 Standard 			 
		 The Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems, in partnership with the Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics, is very pleased to announce its Distinguished Speaker series for the academic year 2008-2009. This year’s series will bring a set of internationally-known researchers to UC Irvine, speaking on a broad set of topics ranging from machine learning, statistical prediction, computer vision, and analysis of text, network, and Web data.  For further information, see the  2008-2009 speaker schedule . 
			 
	
	 September 1, 2008 		
		
			  Center Member Awarded $750,000 from IMLS to Study Topic Modeling of Digital Resources  				 Standard 			 
		 Center member David Newman and collaborators at Yale University and University of Michigan have been awarded $750,000 from the Institute of Museum and Library Services to study how topic modeling can be used to improve search and discovery of digital resources in increasingly large digital collections. They will apply topic modeling to three important classes of digital library resources: full-text books, images, and tagged objects.  The team will build prototypes of user interface applications that use topic modeling, to assess the value of topic modeling to users.   
			 
	
	 September 1, 2008 		
		
			  Five New Faculty Join the Center  				 Standard 			 
		 The Center is very pleased to welcome  five new faculty  on board, all assistant professors who joined UC Irvine in Fall 2007. From computer science, we welcome Charless Fowlkes (computer vision and bioinformatics), Alex Ihler (statistical learning and inference), Deva Ramanan (computer vision), and Xiaohui Xie (bioinformatics) – and from cognitive science we welcome Lisa Pearl (computational language modeling). 
			 
	
	 December 4, 2007 		
		
			  Center Members Receive Major Honors  				 Standard 			 
		 A number of Center members were recognized by their peers for major awards in the Fall. Rina Dechter received the 2007 Association of Constraint Programming Research Excellence award. Michael Goodrich was named a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). And Rui de Figueiredo was elected a foreign member of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences (U.S. Section) and was awarded the academy’s George V. Chilingar Medal of Honor for his important contributions to science and engineering. Congrats to all! 
			 
	
	 December 3, 2007 		
		
			  Yahoo! Gift Funds Seminars  				 Standard 			 
		 The Center is very grateful for a recent gift from Yahoo! – the gift is specifically targeted at supporting the  weekly AI and machine learning seminar series . This series has proven very popular with graduate students and faculty, and we had an excellent set of talks in Fall quarter, including visitors such as Geoff Hinton, Milind Tambe, and Dave Blei. The  Distinguished Speaker Series  also got off to a great start in the Fall, with talks by Judea Pearl, David Heckerman, and Tommi Jaakkola.  Next quarter, we look forward to visits from Tom Griffiths, Andrew McCallum, and Trevor Hastie. 
			 
	
	 December 2, 2007 		
		
			  Center Members Present Six Papers at NIPS 2007  				 Standard 			 
		 At the recent (Dec 2007) NIPS conference in Vancouver, six different papers were presented by PhD students and faculty from the Center. The students included Ian Porteous, Eric Linstead, and Arthur Asuncion, and researchers and faculty from the Center included Alex Ihler, Max Welling, Pierre Baldi, Dave Newman, and Padhraic Smyth. The NIPS conference is one of the major annual conferences in machine learning (over 1000 attendees) and is also highly competitive — only about 25% of submitted papers are accepted. 
			 
	
	 December 1, 2007 		
		
			  Distinguished Speaker Series for 07-08 Announced  				 Standard 			 
		 The Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems, in partnership with the Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics, is very pleased to announce its Distinguished Speaker series for the academic year 2007-2008. This year’s series will bring a set of internationally-known researchers to UC Irvine, speaking on a broad set of topics ranging from automated reasoning, distributed learning algorithms, human and machine learning, statistical prediction, and analysis of text, network, and Web data. For further information, see the  2007-2008 speaker schedule . 
			 
	
	 August 4, 2007 		
		
			  Graduate Students Win International Data Mining Competition  				 Standard 			 
		 Chloe Azencott and S. Josh Swamidass, two graduate students in Professor Pierre Baldiﾒs lab, finished in 1st and 2nd place respectively in the data mining competition “Agnostic Learning vs. Prior Knowledge” part of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN) 2007 Conference, a major international conference in the field of neural networks. 
			 
	
	 August 3, 2007 		
		
			  Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics Awarded $5.6 Million Training Grant  				 Standard 			 
		 The UC Irvine Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics (IGB) has been awarded $5.6 million over five years from the National Institutes of Health to continue training students to apply advanced computer and information technologies in the biological and medical sciences. The funding will be used to expand the interdisciplinary Biomedical Informatics Training (BIT) program, one of eighteen such programs in the country. 
			 
	
	 August 2, 2007 		
		
			 Posts navigation 
		 

						   ‹  Older posts   
			
						   Newer posts   ›   
			
		 
	 
	 
				
		 Search 
		
 

 

 (c) 2015  Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems 
	  
				 WordPress / BonPress 
	 
</body> 