 ChemDB Web Interface Index<body>
 
     
        
    	    
           
                
              
            Home  
        
    	
        
            
        
        
       
           Tools 
           
                
                  Smi2Depict  
                 Generate 2D images from SMILES. 
                   Babel  
                 Convert between molecule file formats. 
                   Reaction Processor  
                 Generate product libraries. 
                   Pattern Match Counter  
                 Count functional groups (sub-structures). 
                   Pattern Count Screen  
                 Screen molecules by functional group count. 
                   MSFragment  
                 Fragment molecules for mass spec analysis. 
                   Mass2Structure  
                 Search ChemDB by monoisotopic mass and substructure filtering. 
                   Protein Target Predictor  
                 Predict activities of small molecules against a large set of protein targets 
                  
            
             Datasets 
             
                 Chemical datasets  
                Datasets for training and testing machine learning and other algorithms. 
             
            
             Publications 
             
                
                   
                     Publications  
                    
                     Relevant scientific articles published by our team.
                      If you use any data or tools from the ChemDB Portal, please cite the following article: 
                    
                    
                     Chen, J. H., Linstead, E., Swamidass, S. J., Wang, D. &amp; Baldi, P.  ChemDB update-full-text search and virtual chemical space.   Bioinformatics  23, 2348-2351 (2007).
                        
                    
                
             
        
      
       
             Molecules 
             
                
                  ChemicalSearch                
                 Find a molecule by its name, structure, or similarity to another molecule and filter the results. 
                   Virtual Chemical Space  
                 Interactively deconstruct a target molecule into possible chemical precursors and reassemble them into a combinatorial library of real or virtual  molecules around the target. 
                   MOLpro  
                 Calculate or predict molecular properties other than 3D structure. 
                   AquaSol  
                 Predict aqueous solubility of small molecules using
deep learning and ensembles. 
                   COSMOS (downloadable)  
                 Predict 3D molecular structures using open
crystallography libraries. 

                  COSMOS  
                 Predict 3D molecular structures. 

             
            
             Reactions 
             
                Reaction Explorer  
               Learn and practice reactions, syntheses, and mechanisms  interactively with support for:  automated generation of problems, curved-arrow mechanism diagrams, and inquiry-based learning. 
                 Reaction Predictor  
               Predict reaction outcomes and mechanisms using machine learning. 
                 ReactionMap  
               Predict the mapping of reactant atoms to product atoms for chemical reactions. 
             
            
             Download &amp; Documentation 
                                                     
                  Download  
                 Download entire set of chemical isomers contained within ChemDB. 
                
                  Implementation                  
                 System implementation materials such as the database schema with data definition and  source / vendor information table . 
                
                  Analysis  
                 Data analysis tables and charts based upon ChemDB contents. 
             
            
            
           

       
       Acknowledgements 
          
             
                
                     OpenEye Scientific Software  
                      
                   Provider of software tools and components, including OEChem, Ogham and LexiChem.
                
               
                
                    ChemAxon  
                      
                   Molecular visualization applet, including 3D views and mechanism arrow diagram sketching.
                
             
              
                
                    JME Editor  (Peter Ertl, Novartis) 
                      
                   Molecule editing Java Applet to enable sketching of your own reactants.
                
               
                
                    Chemical Vendors  
                   All of the vendors who have supplied their chemical information catalogs that comprise the core data beneath ChemDB.
                   The  source information table  includes a complete listing.
                
              
           
       
     
    
             
         For commercial licenses, please contact: igb-license [at]
ics [.] uci [.] edu 
              
               University of California, Irvine  | 
               Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics  | © 2012
                 
     
 

</body> 