 The Sundance Kid<body>
		        
    
 

		  
			                                     
		 


		  Copyright © 1997, CP Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.  
		  movies  
		 
			 
The Sundance Kid 
			 A young animator from Gladwyne reports on his first trip to Bob
			Redford's movie schmoozefest.  
			  By Bill Tomlinson  
		 
		 
			  During our time here, some of us ski, most watch films, and all
			schmooze. The most tragic condition at Sundance is being alone.
			It means you must be nobody.  
			  I have been wandering around Park City for six days with a metal-and-hot-glue
			homunculus clinging to my backpack. Why? Because movie directors
			are  supposed  to be freaks.  
		 
		  Sundance Film Festival, Park City, UT, Sat., Jan. 18, 10 p.m.: The world premiere of  Gridlock'd , Tupac Shakur's final film. It's just like every other screening
		at Sundance: I'm waiting in line to get in, subject to the whim
		of an arbitrary doorman. 
		 I'm a filmmaker, but that doesn't help. You see, I'm an animator.
		(My film  Shaft of Light  is being screenedas part of Shorts Program V at Sundance.) And
		because I make short films (as opposed to features), I am not
		bustled through the crowd and past the doorman, but rather get
		to wait with the masses on the wrong side of the theater door. 
		 Tonight, though, I get lucky. As a bald-faced publicity stunt,
		I carry around one of my actors -- an 18-inch-tall humanoid metal
		armature -- with his arm slung through a loop on my backpack.
		At this screening, as at all events here, if the right person
		likes you, all doors open. The doorman likes my armature, I get
		to watch the premiere of  Gridlock'd  -- and I don't even have to pay seven bucks. 
		 The Sundance Film Festival is America's most prominent showcase
		of independent film. Directors, producers, actors, writers, distributors,
		critics, reporters, sponsors and a whole array of dignitaries
		and other hangers-on accumulate in Park City for 10 days (or three
		days, if you have to be in L.A. on Monday for a power meeting
		with Paramount, but I'll call you later this week. I promise.) 
		 During our time here (Sundance '97 finished up on Sunday), some
		of us ski, most watch films, and all schmooze. The most tragic
		condition at Sundance is being alone. It means you must be nobody.
		Tim Roth was the only person I've seen who was walking alone and
		wasn't embarrassed about it (of course, he was fleeing the madding
		crowd out front of the Egyptian Theater, where his movie had just
		premiered). 
		 The threat of the fatal disease of solitude causes everyone here
		to talk incessantly, and avoid silence at all costs. The trick
		is to be seen talking to important people, so that other people
		will think that  you  must be important, and therefore they will come try to talk to
		you. 
		 At Sundance's opening night screening, I accidentally sat down
		in what turned out to be the row reserved for the Sundance board
		of directors. In due course, Sally Field came and sat down next
		to me. After a few minutes, when she had dispensed with the obligatory
		greetings pushed on her by just about everyone within three rows,
		she turned to me. 
		 "Hello. I'm Sally." 
		 "Hello. I'm Bill. Nice to meet you," I replied, and we chatted
		about the film we were about to see. 
		 Now, it's not every day that a major film star introduces herself
		to a thoroughly un-famous, 24-year-old, just-recently-ex-student
		like me. I thought through the possible explanations: 
		 1. She's an honest-to-goodness nice person. 
		 2. She figured that a guy my age in the board-of-directors row
		must be  somebody , or at least be closely related to  somebody . 
		 In her defense, Sally Field is a big enough star that she doesn't
		have to kiss up to anyone, board of directors or not. So I guess
		the answer is that she's just nice. All I know is that  I  didn't start the conversation. 
		 So why do thousands of people congregate annually to engage in
		a ritual of schmoozing and being schmoozed, snubbing and being
		snubbed? 
		 Because it can make your future. If Bob Redford takes a shine
		to a first-time filmmaker, suddenly that filmmaker finds a plush
		budget for his next film. Within an hour after my first screening,
		Bravo (one of the cable TV channels that has people prowling the
		back alleys of Park City around this time of year) had a handwritten
		note in my mailbox, asking me to call them to talk about "a possible
		deal." And if I see an actor I like, I'll remember him when I
		cast my next film. 
		 So we all come to Sundance to see the best of the year's indy
		film, to meet the right people, and (since most filmmakers are
		attention-starved artsy types like myself) to experience the rare
		thrill of a packed audience watching a movie that you spent so
		much of your damn life on that it makes you want to throw up just
		thinking about it. 
		 Here are a few day-to-day observations on this year's festival,
		accumulated by this Sundance novice amidst a blizzard of movie
		stars, freebies and promises, promises, promises. 
		   
		  It's the movies, stupid  
		 This is why Sundance exists. I just saw the world premiere of
		 Nowhere , a surreal, post-Generation-X teen flick by Gregg Araki. Sumptuous
		colors, exotically beautiful young actors and a soundtrack as
		far as I can imagine from the tunes playing in the basement Country
		&amp; Western bar where I now sit with my Hugo Boss note pad. (I have
		all sorts of stuff from sponsors and over-eager publicity people.) 
		 There seem to be two kinds of movies here: dramatic/compelling
		and innovative/exotic. (Well, three kinds, actually. Compelling,
		exotic and good-old-fashioned crap, although I suppose one could
		parse the crap into poor attempts at the first two.) Although
		I have seen films that made me laugh, cry, hope, blah, blah, blah
		(category one), I much prefer the crazy flair of films like  Nowhere . The film moved blithely from a girl flirting with twin blonde
		Adonises named Surf and Ski to a buff, leather-clad cycle-rider
		beating a young punk's face in with a can of tomato soup. 
		 It was all that,  and  a bag of chips. 
		 
			   
		 
		  Why are film directors such freaks?  
		 As a budding director, I often feel the urge to act strange. I
		want to put my hair up in a topknot and walk around with mud smeared
		on my face, or call Information and ask them the molecular weight
		of NaCl. And, as I already mentioned, I have been wandering around
		Park City for six days with a metal-and-hot-glue homunculus clinging
		to my backpack. 
		 Why? I guess because movie directors and actors are  supposed  to be freaks. An accountant who suddenly dyed his hair blue and
		shaved the word "TAX" in his beard would be avoided by his peers,
		but society provides a certain loophole for creatives. We're expected
		to be different, so we fulfill our role by acting up. When the
		6 o'clock news displays the antics of some whiny film star, it
		encourages the very weirdness it seems to condemn.  
		 (This rant inspired by a bit part played by Robert Downey, Jr.
		in the film  Hugo Pool  directed by Robert Downey, Sr. The younger Robert Downey plays
		a zany, egocentric director who has shot an extra for over-acting.
		"Thank god we're in L.A.," he says, or he'd never have gotten
		off.) 
		   
		  Cheap eats  
		 So far I've paid for one meal in nine days. We live on hors d'oeuvres
		and free Absolut (one of the corporate sponsors). Starbucks has
		set up a free coffee stand in the Sundance Channel office, for
		those in the know, so I've had quite a few complimentary vanilla
		steamers (steamed milk with vanilla syrup). Very soothing. 
		 Dinner tonight should be provided by the Kodak party. They'll
		have food and drink to court us into using Kodak film stock. I'm
		a confirmed Fuji-shooter, but I wouldn't want to hurt Kodak's
		feelings, now would I? 
		   
		  "So what do you do?"  
		 These last few days have been the first time in my life that I've
		been scared of talking to a beautiful woman (of whom there are
		many) more because of  who she probably is  than simply because she is a beautiful woman. I'll be chatting
		with a friend and he'll point out someone across the room. At
		all other times in my life, said companion might say "Damn, she's
		hot!" Here my comrade offers "She's an agent." As if her perfect
		blondeness weren't intimidating enough... 
		 I spend a lot of time talking to the hired help. 
		   
		  Hard cell  
		 At the opening night party, a woman dissed a guy to take a call
		on her cell phone. Before every screening, there is a request
		by a staff member that audience members please turn off their
		cell phones. The Executive Business Center rents them for what
		I'm sure is an exorbitant amount. The expense pales, though, when
		you read of the films being picked up by distributors for $3 million
		because of deals made on cell phones. When I made the Bravo deal
		(yes, it's gone from "possible" to probable), I was on a pay phone
		-- but I'll bet the Bravo guy was on his cell phone. 
		   
		  Roger Ebert goes ballistic  
		 I went to a panel discussion on the future of cyberspace, featuring
		William Gibson, Douglas Adams, John Perry Barlow and Paulina Borsook.
		About 20 minutes into it, the movie critic Roger Ebert, who was
		sitting about five seats from me, barked out that they were talking
		about things that had already happened and that we all already
		knew, and uttered a curt request that they start talking about
		the  future  of cyberspace as that was the title of the panel. To thunderous
		audience applause, the panelists shifted their discussion to the
		future. 
		 But then a few people in the crowd felt it was their right to
		bark out commands, too. The panel turned into an inane Q &amp; A.
		Most of the audience was annoyed by the nobodies putting in their
		two cents. I sat and tried to figure out why Roger Ebert is applauded
		for chiming in, but anyone else is shut down.  
		 Best quote: "We will all be immigrants in a land where our children
		will be natives -- cyberspace." --John Parry Barlow  
		 Runner-up: "We don't know who discovered water, but we're pretty
		sure it wasn't a fish." --William Gibsonquoting unknown.  
		 
			   
		 
		  Sun, Slam, Slum  
		 Sundance is a terribly exclusive film festival. So, three years
		ago, a bunch of directors whose films were refused by Sundance
		started their own festival, which takes place in Park City at
		the same time. They consider themselves the alternative to the
		alternative (since Sundance was set up to be the independent alternative
		to Hollywood studio filmmaking) -- and now their festival has
		become nearly as hard to crack as Sundance. 
		 Not to be outdone, a group of filmmakers who didn't feel they
		belonged with Sundance  or  Slamdance started their own gig: Slumdance. About a month before
		the other two festivals were to begin, Slumdance put up a Website
		and started collecting films for an impromptu bunch of screenings
		and parties to take place in an as-yet-to-be-determined location
		in Park City. After a couple of weeks, they secured an abandoned
		Mrs. Field's Cookie Factory on Main Street, right in the middle
		of everything. They bought out a thrift store in Salt Lake City
		and created the "Slum," a hodgepodge of tents, potato chips and
		videocassettes in their new home. They welcome everyone with free
		soup and no stress. 
		 So will there be an alternative to the alternative to the alternative
		to the alternative next year? 
		 Slimchance. 
		   
		  Who wins?  
		 Well,  Shaft of Light  didn't win any awards. A film called  Man About Town  by Kris Isacsson and Matt Gunn took best short film. (Some consolation,
		though -- actress Sandra Bullock, whose directorial debut was
		also featured in the short film competition, didn't win anything
		either.) 
		 But with all the prizes flying about in Park City (Sundance has
		prizes, Slamdance has prizes, even Slumdance has prizes -- including
		one called the Golden Rat), who really wins? I suppose it depends
		on what game you're playing. 
		 Some wins are concrete, others ephemeral. A few directors leave
		here with lump sums in their pockets. Actors leave with roles
		in new films. But everyone scored something; a phone number of
		an agent, a promise that a producer will read your script, a set
		of contracts that "will be faxed to you on Monday." These might
		be the most important thing to happen in a young artist's life,
		but more than likely they will wash out. You make 10 best friends
		at the festival for each follow-up call that will be returned.
		People rave about your film, and then won't say hi when you pass
		them in the street. Some people in the industry are just plain
		mean, and probably enjoy the opportunity to destroy the enthusiasm
		of us neophytes, but most people here are just looking out for
		their own interests as best they can. What more can you expect? 
		 So we'll all go back to L.A., New York, Paris, Rome, Philadelphia,
		Kansas and Japan, and see if anything actually pans out. Maybe
		I'll be the big discovery of Sundance 1997. Or, more likely, the
		last 10 days will be just a step in the right direction for my
		career as a filmmaker. A thousand more steps just like it, and
		then I'll be somebody, too. Doormen will recognize me, and I'll
		be invited to all the parties. Until then, I remain a 24-year-old
		animator, waiting in line in the snow, with a little metal figure
		hanging from my back. 
		 This just in: the Bravo contract I'd been promised by Monday has
		still not arrived. Maybe I should stop holding my breath. 
	</body> 