 Research |  
 
	    
			  
		
			 Skip to content 
			    Home  
  Biography  
  Research  
  Students  
  Publications  
  Entrepreneurship  
  News  
  Miscellaneous  
  		 
	 
		 

							
	 Research 
		 
			 My research interests are in the fields of data management, including data-intensive computing,  databases, text processing, and large-scale analytics and visualization. My PhD thesis at Stanford was on data integration, with an emphasis on both theoretical and practical aspects. My recent research, especially after spending a few quarters at Google and a few years doing a startup as its founder and CTO, has a strong preference on engineering and open source system building.  I believe “Computer Science” is a “Science” to support great engineering, and we need to build systems to stay relevant in this fast-paced IT era. 
 Current Projects 
   Apache AsterixDB : A scalable, open source Big Data Management System (BDMS). 
  Cloudberry : With intelligent middleware on top of an AsterixDB cluster, Cloudberry supports interactive analytics and visualization on big data sets (e.g., sub-second queries on billions of records). 
  TextDB : It is a text-centric data management system to support declarative and scalable text processing, in particular, information extraction. 
  Past Projects 
   FLAMINGO : A project on data cleaning and string similarity queries. 
  IPUBMED : Efficient instant search on large amounts of data. It started with the joint research  project  with  Tsinghua University  on efficient auto-complete and type-ahead search on large data sets. 
  Family Reunification . Help people find their loved ones during or after a disaster. 
  The Raccoon Project on Data Integration and Sharing . I started this project several years ago, and it’s in its final stage. I still have some ongoing research related to this project. But compared to the first two projects, this one is less active. 
  Data sets of the history of data objects collected from 6 web sites in 1.5 years . 
  Released Prototypes and Source Code Packages 
   Flamingo Packge : C++ package to do approximate string queries. 
  ASTERIX . 
  Fuzzy keyword search on maps  
  qSpell : Spelling Correction of Web Search Queries (won the 3rd Prize in  Microsoft’s speller challenge  in 2011) 
  Lightweight In-Memory Implementation of R*-Tree  (maintained by  Sattam Alsubaiee ). 
  iPubMed : Instant fuzzy search on more than 20 million medical publications from  MEDLINE . 
  Instant fuzzy search for learning . 
  Location-based instant fuzzy search . 
  Location-based approximate keyword search . 
  CHIME  : Error-tolerant Chinese input method.  
  PSearch : Instant fuzzy search on the  UCI directory . 
  Efficient Parallel Set-Similarity Joins Using MapReduce . 
  Haiti family reunification : Instant fuzzy search on records about people affected by the Haiti earthquake. 
  DNAzip : DNA sequence compression using a reference genome. 
  Hobbes : genome sequence mapping. 
   
					 
		 

	
	
	
 			
		 
	 

	 
	 
					 
	 

</body> 