 Siddharth Gupta<body>
        
        
              
                     Siddharth Gupta 
                     Graduate Student 
                       Office : DBH 4032 
                        
                          Email : 'firstname'.'lastname'+'@uci.edu' 
                        
                        
                        Google Scholar  
                        
                          Curriculum vitae  
                        
                      
             About 
             
                I am a second year Computer Science PhD student in the
                 Center for Algorithms and Theory of Computation 
                at  University of California, Irvine . I am working with Professor  David Eppstein  and Professor  Michael Goodrich .
                   
                Before joining UCI, I completed my M.Sc.(Hons.) Mathematics and B.E.(Hons.) Computer Science from  BITS-Pilani, Goa Campus  in 2014, where I was fortunate to be advised by Professor
                 Tarkeshwar Singh .   Research Interests 
        	
        		I am interested in the broad area of Theoretical Computer Science and specifically in Graph and Geometric Algorithms.
        	 Publications 
            (All publications are in chronological order of author's last name, except when marked with * )
             A Topological Algorithm for Determining How Road Networks Evolve Over Time 
                
                   M T Goodrich  

                      Siddharth Gupta  
                    
                      Manuel R. Torres  
                    
                   Presented at  SIGSPATIAL 2016 . Preprint on  arXiv . 
                    
                  *A New Parallel Algorithm for Two-Pass Connected Component Labeling 
                
                   Siddharth Gupta  
                    
                      Diana Palsetia  
                    
                      Md. Mostofa Ali Patwary  
                    
                      Ankit Agrawal  
                    
                      Alok Choudhary  
                    
                   Presented at  MTAAP 2014 . Preprint on  arXiv . 

                    
                    
                  Miscellaneous 
            Semantic Scholar  
               Try out Semantic Scholar. It's an academic search engine that utilizes artificial intelligence methods to provide highly relevant results and novel tools to filter them with ease. 
            </body> 