 &lt;title&gt;Syllabus&lt;/title&gt; 

 

   Course Syllabus     

         

    CompSci     
131 - Parallel and Distributed Systems     

         

  Instructor:     Prof.
A. Veidenbaum    

  TA:               Aniket   Shivam 
(aniketsh@ics.uci.edu)     

       

       

   Prerequisites   :    ICS53   +  53L   and (  ICS45C   or ICS 65 or equivalent)
  

               Students who started
in the CS program before ICS53 was introduced      

              do
not need to take it to enroll in 131.     

       

   Textbook   :   "Distributed Systems" by Andrew  Tannenbaum 
and Maarten van Steen. 2nd edition      

       

   COURSE
OVERVIEW     

  This course is an introduction to parallel
and distributed systems and their programming. It examines major concepts
involved in creating parallel/distributed software and applications using a
collection of independent, communicating single-processor systems. Performance
issues in such systems are also covered.    

       

       

  Major topics covered in this course are:    

   Hardware parallel and distributed systems     

   OS support, networking      

   Programming models      

   Parallel/Distributed programming and performance     

   Coordination and Synchronization      

   Consistency and replication     

   Fault Tolerance     

   Data Centers     

       

       

  The course is composed of three components:
lectures, homework assignments, and programming assignments. The objective of
the lectures is to introduce and help you understand the concepts.    The assignments aim to strengthen and
enhance your understanding. The assignments are based on lecture material  and  textbook readings. The focus of
programming assignments is to put the concepts to practice and perform actual
parallel/distributed programming.     

       

       

   Office
Hours     

    Instructor     :        Immediately after each lecture or by appointment.    

    TA     :                     Tu  at 10am     in CS424A    (plus Fri 9-11am in the lab)      

       

   GRADING     

  There will be 6 assignments and a final
exam.     All assignments will be
posted on the class web page and must be submitted electronically via EEE.
Assignments will consist of 3 labs and 3 homeworks.     

       

   Assignments
will be graded and need to be performed individually. Lab programs will checked
through MOSS. There will be zero tolerance for cheating.       

       

  Your grade in CompSci131 will be based on
your performance on assignments and the exams.     

  The following approximate weights will
be used:    

  Assignments -
60%          ( Individual
assignments will carry different weights depending on the degree of difficulty)    

  Exams - 40%    

       

  Late assignments will NOT be accepted      ( exceptions
for illness or other cases may be made,  in
writing,  as soon as possible and  before 
the due date  )     

       

  Assignment re-grade requests are only considered for a period of 1
week    following the date when the assignment  scores    have  been
posted   .
 You MUST write a cover sheet  explaining why you believe
a problem was  mis -graded to have an assignment
re-graded. Return the assignment and the cover sheet to the TA.      

       

       

       

         

 

</body> 