 Voting System Design<body>      Steve Rodermund, the Orange County Registrarof Voters, heard that you're now an expert on the social and organizationalaspects of computer systems.  He has asked your opinion about the systemfor running elections in Orange County.  He wants a system that is accurate,reliable, secure, convenient, and accessible to all voters.    You will write a report of about four pages,giving your recommendations for how to organize voting in Orange Countyin a way that best satisfies these constraints.    You can see from the registrar's web site,   http://www.oc.ca.gov/election/   ,that Orange County currently uses eSLATE voting machines; the registrar'ssite has a  background page and a  multimedia page describing these machines.  Once you decide how best to handle voting inOrange County, you can relate your recommendations to the current system. Criticizing or commending the current system should not be your main focus,however; what the registrar wants is your overall recommendation of howto handle elections in Orange County.      Voting systems:   A voting system (inthe broadest sense, including not just technology but the people involvedand the rules and procedures they follow) should have these qualities, amongothers:     Voters find the system understandable andeasy to use without error, including inexperienced voters, disabled voters,older voters, voters with fixed work hours, poor voters, voters who can'tcome to a polling place on election day, and voters whose native languageisn't English.      Results are accurate (they correctly reflectthe expressed intent of the voter), invariant (repeated counts or queriesproduce the same results), and available quickly.      Voting is secure (only eligible people vote,each person votes only once) and private (nobody else should be able tofind out how a particular voter voted).      More broadly, the system is fair and treatspeople equally; it does not give one group of voters any advantage overanother.      The public has confidence in the accuracy,security, fairness, and legitimacy of the system.  It's not enough thatthe system  be  all those things; the public has to  believe that it has all those qualities.  They should not have to accept that itworks on blind faith; they should be able to see for themselves that itworks, or at least hear it from people  they  choose to trust.     Your task is to design and describe a votingsystem that has these characteristics. Your design may not be able to satisfyevery criterion perfectly--if there were a perfect solution, it would alreadybe implemented and the 2000 election's problems in Florida wouldn'thave happened (nor would the more recent problems in Florida and elsewhere). Be as thorough as you can in four pages, but don't panic if you hearthat one of your classmates discussed something that you didn't haveroom for.    You should assume that your reader, Mr. Rodermund,is very familiar with the voting technologies available; you should notspend any time describing punched cards, optical scanners, touch screens,internet voting, cryptography, or any other technologies.  Your analysisshould focus on how the technology (or combination of technologies) yourecommend will meet the criteria listed above and satisfy the major constituencies(stakeholders):  voters, candidates, political parties, office holders,election officials, and the general public.    There are no "right answers" tothis assignment.  The most important thing is that you describe how eachof your recommendations will improve the voting process, and how each aspectof your design will affect the various constituencies involved.     Stage I:  Decide on your recommendations(due Wednesday, April 14)     First, decide what systems and proceduresshould be implemented (or maintained, if they already exist).  Read theassigned articles, discuss ideas in section and with your classmates (perhapson the NoteBoard at eee.uci.edu), try to think of how each of the criteriaand each of the constituencies will be affected by what you recommend. We don't expect you to do significant outside research, but of courseyou may use any information you like, so long as you cite it properly. This is the part of the assignment that requires the greatest intellectualeffort and the most time--don't neglect it just because the writtenproduct of this stage (see below) is relatively informal.    Once you know what you plan to propose (includingthe reasons behind your choices and what effect you expect each recommendationto have), write them down in outline form and turn the outline in electronicallyvia Checkmate.  You must also bring a paper copy of your outline to a face-to-facemeeting you will schedule with Keri Carpenter on Wednesday or Thursday,April 14 or 15.  She will look over your outline to make sure you'reon the right track.  (The outline and the meeting are required; your scorewill be lowered if you don't submit electronically and show up to yourmeeting.)    Be sure to keep the paper copy of your approvedoutline; you will need to turn it in with the draft and final versions.     Stage II:  Write your memo (due Thursday,April 29)     Second, write your memo, following your outlineand the TA's suggestions.  Your memo should be about four pages long(in 10 or 12 point type, double spaced)--not less than three and not morethan five.     Content, organization, and clarity are moreimportant than precisely what format you follow.  However, your memo orreport must have a one-paragraph executive summary (a paragraph that startsout with the words "Executive summary:") that lists your majorrecommendations. The executive summary appears at the top, but you don'twrite it until after you write the body of the memo.  Mr. Rodermund is busy,and while you expect him to read your whole memo, the executive summarymay help him decide whether to read it now or later.    This version will be graded; the TA will makecomments and suggest improvements.  Your grade for this part will count30% of your grade on the whole assignment, so it pays to do as well as youcan at this point.  Turn this in on April 29 (on paper at the beginningof class; electronically using Checkmate).     Be sure to keep the paper copy of your gradeddraft memo; you will turn it in again with the final version.     Stage III:  Revise your memo (due Tuesday,May 11)     Third, after your graded memo is returned,revise your memo, taking into account the comments of the TA.  This finalmemo will count 70% of the grade on the whole assignment.  Turn this inon Thursday, May 11 (on paper in class and electronically).     What to turn in:   When you turn inyour Stage II memo on paper, include a copy of the outline you went overwith the TA.  When you turn in the paper version of your Stage III revisedmemo, include that same Stage I outline and your graded Stage II memo. Including your previous work is important context for the grading; to receivecredit, you need to turn in your previous work in the package.  Don'tforget the other guidelines on the sheet of " Writing Assignment Requirements ".     Other important advice:   Based on students'work in the past, we'd like to suggest some things for you to consideras you work:     Get your facts straight.  While we don'texpect you to be perfect experts on voting technologies, you shouldn'tmake claims that aren't true (for example, don't say that opticalscanners produce reliable, unambiguous results) and you should think throughyour recommendations and make sure they make sense (for example, don'tassume that all voters have easy access to an internet-connected computer).      Know your audience.  Use an appropriate tone--relativelyformal--when writing for a government official.  Avoid slang and humor. Don't tell the reader things she already knows (you can check withus if you don't know what might need explaining).      Keep organized.  You should state each recommendationclearly; the recommendations should proceed logically from one to the next,describing the expected benefits and drawbacks of each in turn.      Watch your wording.  Use a dictionary to makesure that the words you use mean what you want them to mean.  Use a writingguide (like  Writing from A to Z ) to make sure your sentences complywith the standard.      We can expect to see more real-world proposalsfor voting reform in the next few months.  Having spent this time thinkingabout the issues, you'll be uniquely placed to comment on them.     Background on American elections:   Ifpast classes are any guide, there may be some students who don't actuallyhave much experience with the American election system.  To help you getgoing on the assignment, here are some good sources of information. Thesereadings are not required; they do not have to be included in your notebookand they won't be tested on the exams.     http://www.lwv.org/elibrary/nv/2000/voter_0900_9.html     This short article briefly describes the mainvoting technologies available.  Note the recent news item that optical scanningballots in Florida (which are like Scantrons; the article calls this "marksense")produced  more  ambiguous ballots than the punch-card voting did. (The League of Women Voters is a nonpartisan organization formed when womenwere first given the vote, to promote voter education.)     http://ca.lwv.org/lwvc/edfund/elections/index.html      http://ca.lwv.org/lwvc/edfund/voterreg/index.html     These give information on voting proceduresin California.     http://www.fec.gov/pages/faqvdayeprocedures.htm     This FAQ, from the Federal Elections Commission,lists a variety of voting procedures and how they differ from state to state.    If you'd like even more information, you cancheck these out:     http://www.ss.ca.gov/elections/Outreach/civics/pg_11.htm      http://www.smartvoter.org/voter/linkkids.html      Further reading on electronic voting:  In addition to the assigned readings, there have been a few other nationalstudies and task forces on electronic voting.  Feel free to check theseout, although they are not required and won't be tested:    California Secretary of State, "CaliforniaInternet Voting Task Force Report"     http://www.ss.ca.gov/executive/ivote/     Internet Policy Institute (sponsored by NationalScience Foundation), Report of the National Workshop on Internet Voting:Issues and Research Agenda (March 2001)     http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/131/e_voting_report.pdf     Caltech-MIT Voting Technology Project, Voting--Whatit is, what it could be (July 2001)     http://www.vote.caltech.edu/Reports/     National Commission on Federal Election Reform(headed by Presidents Carter and Ford), Final Report (July 2001)     http://www.reformelections.org/data/reports/98_summary.php     This group has a variety of other, more recentreports at     http://www.reformelections.org/learn/reports.php     </body> 