 Geometry in Action: Minimum Spanning Trees<body>

 
 
  
 
  
  Minimum Spanning Trees 
     Applications of computational geometry .
John Hershberger describes some geometric problems arising in his work
at Mentor graphics including interpolation of thermal data, minimum spanning trees, and breakout
routing in PC board design.
 
    Cancer
imaging .  The BC Cancer Research Ctr. uses minimum spanning trees to
describe the arrangements of nuclei in skin cells.
 
    Cosmology at
the University of Kentucky . This group works on large-scale
structure formation, using methods including N-body simulations and
minimum spanning trees.
 
    Detecting actin fibers in cell images .
A. E. Johnson and
R. E. Valdes-Perez use minimum spanning trees for biomedical image analysis.
 
    The
Euclidean minimum spanning tree mixing model .  S. Subramaniam and
S. B. Pope use geometric minimum spanning trees to model locality of
particle interactions in turbulent fluid flows.  The tree structure of
the MST permits a linear-time solution of the resulting
particle-interaction matrix.
 
    Extracting features from remotely sensed images .  Mark Dobie and co-workers use minimum spanning trees to find road networks in satellite and aerial imagery.
 
    Finding
quasar superstructures .
M. Graham and co-authors use 2d and 3d minimum spanning
trees for finding clusters of quasars and Seyfert galaxies.
 
    Learning
salient features for real-time face verification , K. Jonsson, J. Matas,
and J. Kittler.  Includes a minimum-spanning-tree based algorithm
for registering the images in a database of faces.
 
    Minimal
spanning tree analysis of fungal spore spatial patterns ,
C. L. Jones, G. T. Lonergan, and D. E. Mainwaring.
 
    A minimal spanning tree analysis of the CfA redshift survey .  Dan Lauer uses minimum spanning trees to understand the large-scale structure of the universe.
 
    A
mixing model for turbulent reactive flows based on Euclidean minimum
spanning trees , S. Subramaniam and S. B. Pope.
 
    Sausages,
proteins, and rho .  In the talk announced here, J. MacGregor Smith
discusses Euclidean Steiner tree theory and describes potential
applications of Steiner trees to protein conformation and molecular
modeling.
 
    Weather
data interpretation .  The Insight group at Ohio State is using
geometric techniques such as minimum spanning trees to extract features
from large meteorological data sets.
 
     
Part of
 Geometry in Action ,
a collection of applications of computational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 