 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
Paths in graphs
 
   Ten algorithms for Egyptian fractions . 
D. Eppstein.  Mathematica in Education and Research  4 (2): 5–15, 1995.
 
Number theory.
I survey and implement in  Mathematica  several methods
for representing rational numbers as sums of distinct unit fractions.
One of the methods involves searching for paths in a certain graph
using a   k  shortest paths  heuristic.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 Also available
in HTML and Mathematica notebook formats )
  
    Finding the  k  shortest paths . 
D. Eppstein.  35th IEEE Symp. Foundations of Comp. Sci.,  Santa Fe, 1994, pp. 154–165.  Tech. Rep. 94-26 , ICS, UCI, 1994.  
 SIAM J. Computing  28 (2): 652–673, 1998 .
 
This paper presents an algorithm that finds multiple short paths connecting
two terminals in a graph
(allowing repeated vertices and edges in the paths)
in constant time per path after a preprocessing stage
dominated by a single-source shortest path computation.
The paths it finds are the  k  shortest in the graph, where  k  is a
parameter given as input to the algorithm.
  
The  k  shortest paths problem has many important applications for finding
alternative solutions to geographic path planning problems, network
routing, hypothesis generation in computational linguistics, and
sequence alignment and metabolic pathway finding in
bioinformatics. Although there have been many papers on the
 k  shortest paths problem before and after this one, it has become
frequently cited in those application areas.
Additionally, it marks a boundary in the theoretical study of the problem:
prior theoretical work largely concerned how quickly the problem could
be solved, a line of research that was closed off by the optimal time
bounds of this paper. Subsequent work has focused instead
on devising efficient algorithms for more complex alternative
formulations of the problem that avoid the repeated
vertices and other shortcomings of the alternative paths produced by
this formulation.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Full paper  --
 Citations  --
 Graehl implementation  --
 Jiménez-Marzal implementations  --
 Shibuya implementation  --
 Martins implementation  --
 Cliff OpenStreetMap demo  --
CiteSeer:
 TR '94 ,
 SJC '98  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Representing all minimum spanning trees with applications to
counting and generation . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 95-50 , ICS, UCI, 1995.
 
Shows how to find for any edge weighted graph G an equivalent
graph EG such that the  minimum spanning trees 
of G correspond one-for-one with the spanning trees of EG.
The equivalent graph can be
constructed in time O(m+n log n) given a single minimum spanning tree of
G.  As a consequence one can find fast algorithms for counting, listing,
and randomly generating MSTs.
Also discusses similar
equivalent graph constructions for
 shortest paths , minimum cost flows,
and  bipartite matching .
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
    Finding common ancestors and disjoint paths in DAGs . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 95-52 , ICS, UCI, 1995.
 
This paper describes algorithms for finding pairs of vertex-disjoint
paths in a DAG, either connecting two given nodes to a common
ancestor, or connecting two given pairs of terminals.
The main results were merged into the journal version of
" Finding the  k  shortest paths ".
  ( BibTeX )
  
    Beta-skeletons have unbounded dilation . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 96-15 , ICS, UCI, 1996.  arXiv:cs.CG/9907031 .  
 Comp. Geom. Theory &amp; Applications  23: 43–52, 2002 .
 
Beta-skeletons are geometric graphs used among other purposes
for  empirical
network analysis  and minimum weight triangulation.
A fractal construction shows that, for any beta&gt;0,
the beta-skeleton of a point set can have arbitrarily large dilation:
Omega(n c ), where c is a constant depending on beta
and going to zero in the limit as beta goes to zero.
In particular this applies to the Gabriel graph.
We also show upper bounds on dilation of the same form.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Spanning trees and spanners . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 96-16 , ICS, UCI, 1996.  Handbook of Computational Geometry,  J.-R. Sack and J. Urrutia,
eds., Elsevier, 1999, pp. 425–461.
 
Surveys results in geometric network design theory, including algorithms for
constructing minimum spanning trees and low-dilation graphs.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    An efficient algorithm for shortest paths in vertical and horizontal
segments . 
D. Eppstein and
 D. Hart .   5th Worksh. Algorithms and Data Structures,  Halifax, Nova Scotia, 1997 . 
Springer,  Lecture Notes in
Comp. Sci.  1272, 1997, pp. 234–247.
 
We show how to find shortest paths along the segments of
an arrangement of  n  vertical and horizontal line segments in the
plane, in time O( n  3/2 ).
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Diameter and treewidth in minor-closed graph families . 
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:math.CO/9907126 .  Algorithmica  27: 275–291, 2000
(special issue on treewidth, graph minors, and algorithms).
 
This paper introduces the  diameter-treewidth
property  (later known as  bounded local treewidth ): a
functional relationship between the diameter of its graph and its treewidth.
Previously known results imply that planar graphs have
bounded local treewidth; we characterize the
other minor-closed families with this property. Specifically,
minor-closed family F has bounded local treewidth if and only if there
exists an  apex graph  G that is not in F; an apex graph is a graph
that can be made planar by removing a single vertex.
The minor-free families that exclude an apex graph (and therefore have
bounded local treewidth) include the bounded-genus
graphs (for which, as with planar graphs, we show a linear bound for the
treewidth as a function of the diameter) and K 3,a -free graphs.  As
a consequence, subgraph isomorphism for subgraphs of bounded size and
approximations to several NP-hard optimization problems can be computed
efficiently on these graphs, extending previous results for planar
graphs.
  Some of these results
were announced in the conference version of
" subgraph isomorphism for planar graphs and related
problems " but not included in the journal version. Since its
publication, there have been many more works on local treewidth. The class of
problems that could be solved quickly on graphs of bounded local
treewidth was extended and classified by Frick and Grohe, " Deciding first-order
properties of locally tree-decomposable structures ",  J. ACM 
48: 1184–1206, 2001;
the proof that bounded local treewidth is equivalent to having an
excluded apex minor was simplified, and the dependence of the treewidth
on diameter
improved, by a subsequent paper of Demaine and Hajiaghayi, " Diameter and
treewidth in minor-closed graph families, revisited ",  Algorithmica 
40: 211–215, 2004. The concept of local treewidth is the basis for the
theory of  bidimensionality , a general framework for
fixed-parameter-tractable algorithms and approximation algorithms in
minor-closed graph families; for a survey, see Demaine and Hajiaghayi,
" The
bidimensionality theory and its algorithmic applications ",  The
Computer J.  51: 292–302, 2008.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
    Shortest paths in an arrangement with  k  line orientations . 
D. Eppstein and
 D. Hart .  
 10th ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete Algorithms,  Baltimore, 1999, pp. 310–316 .
 
We show how to find shortest paths between two points on the lines of
an arrangement of  n  lines with  k  distinct orientations,
in time O( n  +  k  2 ).
  
( BibTeX  --
 SODA paper  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Setting parameters by example . 
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.DS/9907001 .   40th
IEEE Symp. Foundations of Comp. Sci. , 1999, pp. 309–318 .  
 SIAM J. Computing  32 (3): 643–653, 2003 .
 
We introduce a class of "inverse parametric optimization"
problems, in which one is given both a parametric optimization problem
and a desired optimal solution; the task is to determine parameter
values that lead to the given solution.  We use
 low-dimensional linear programming 
and geometric sampling techniques to solve
such problems for
 minimum spanning trees ,
 shortest paths , and
other optimal subgraph problems, and discuss applications in
multicast routing, vehicle path planning, resource allocation, and board
game programming.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 ACM DL (FOCS)  --
 ACM DL (SJC) )
  
    Searching for spaceships . 
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.AI/0004003 . 
MSRI Combinatorial Game Theory Research Worksh., July 2000.  
 More Games of No Chance ,
R. J. Nowakowski, ed., MSRI Publications 42, pp. 433–453 .
 
We describe software that searches for
 spaceships in Conway's Game of
Life and related two-dimensional cellular automata .
Our program searches through a state space
related to the de Bruijn graph of the automaton,
using a method that combines features of breadth first and
iterative deepening search, and includes fast
bit-parallel  graph reachability 
and  path enumeration  algorithms
for finding the successors of each state.
Successful results include a
 new 2c/7
spaceship in Life , found by searching a space with 2^126 states. 
  
( BibTeX  --
 MSRI
talk on streaming video  and
 Slides  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    One-dimensional peg solitaire, and duotaire .  C. Moore 
and D. Eppstein.  arXiv:math.CO/0006067  and
 math.CO/0008172 . 
MSRI Combinatorial Game Theory Research Worksh., July 2000.  Santa Fe Inst. working paper 00-09-050 , September 2000.  
 More Games of No Chance ,
R. J. Nowakowski, ed., MSRI Publications 42, pp. 341–350 .
 
We describe by a regular expression the one-dimensional peg-solitaire
positions reducible to a single peg, and provide a linear-time algorithm
(based on finding  shortest paths  in an
associated DAG) for
reducing any such position to the minimum number of pegs.
We then investigate impartial games in which players alternate peg
solitaire moves in an attempt to be the one to move last.
  
( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 Cris' MSRI
talk on streaming video  --
 Cris' publications page  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Phutball endgames are hard .  E. Demaine ,
 M. Demaine ,
and D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.CC/0008025 .  
 More Games of No Chance ,
R. J. Nowakowski, ed., MSRI Publications 42, pp. 351–360 .
 
We show that, in John Conway's board game Phutball (or Philosopher's
Football), it is NP-complete to determine whether the
current player has a move that immediately wins the game. In
contrast, the similar problems of determining whether there is an
immediately winning move in checkers, or a move that kings a man,
are both solvable in polynomial time. 
  
( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 Erik's
publications page  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Fast approximation of centrality . 
D. Eppstein and
 J. Wang .  arXiv:cs.DS/0009005 .  
 12th ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete Algorithms, 
Washington, 2001, pp. 228–229 .   J. Graph Algorithms &amp; Applications  8 (1): 39–45, 2004 .
 
We use random sampling to quickly estimate, for each vertex in a graph,
the average  distance  to all other vertices.
  
( BibTeX  --
 SODA paper  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Nonrepetitive paths and cycles in graphs with application to Sudoku . 
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.DS/0507053 .
 
We describe algorithms and hardness results for finding paths in
edge-labeled graphs such that no two consecutive edges have the same label,
and use our algorithms to implement heuristics for a program that
automatically solves and generates Sudoku puzzles.
  
( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
    Succinct greedy geometric routing using hyperbolic geometry . 
D. Eppstein and
 M. T. Goodrich .  arXiv:0806.0341 .  Proc. 16th Int. Symp. Graph Drawing , Heraklion, Crete, 2008 
(under the different title "Succinct greedy graph drawing in the
hyperbolic plane"), 
Springer,  Lecture Notes in Comp. Sci.  5417, 2009, pp. 14–25.   IEEE Transactions on Computing  60 (11): 1571–1580, 2011 .
 
Greedy drawing is an idea for encoding network routing tables into the
geometric coordinates of an embedding of the network, but most previous
work in this area has ignored the space complexity of these encoded tables.
We refine a method of R. Kleinberg for embedding arbitrary graphs into
the hyperbolic plane, which uses linearly many bits to represent each
vertex, and show that only logarithmic bits per point are needed.
  
    Studying (non-planar) road networks through an algorithmic lens . 
D. Eppstein, and
 M. T. Goodrich .  arXiv:0808.3694 .   Proc. 16th ACM SIGSPATIAL Int. Conf. Advances in Geographic
Information Systems (ACM GIS 2008) , Article 16  (best paper award). 
Invited talk at INFORMS 2009, San Diego.
 
We examine US road network data and show that, contrary to the
assumptions of much past GIS work, these networks are highly nonplanar.
We introduce a class of "multiscale dispersed" networks that better fit
the data; these networks are defined by a family of disks of varying
sizes such that, if a small number of outliers is removed, the remaining
disks cover each point of the plane a constant number of times.
As we show, these networks have good graph separators, allowing for
efficient algorithms for minimum spanning trees, graph Voronoi diagrams,
and related problems.
  
    Linear-time algorithms for geometric graphs with sublinearly many
crossings . 
D. Eppstein,
 M. T. Goodrich , and
 D. Strash .  arXiv:0812.0893 .   20th ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete Algorithms, 
New York, 2009, pp. 150–159 .   SIAM J. Computing  39 (8): 3814–3829, 2010 .
 
If a connected graph corresponds to a set of points and line segments in
the plane, in such a way that the number of crossing pairs of line
segments is sublinear in the size of the graph by an iterated-log
factor, then we can find the arrangement of the segments in linear
time. It was previously known how to find the arrangement in linear time
when the number of crossings is superlinear by an iterated-log factor,
so the only remaining open case is when the number of crossings is close to the
size of the graph.
  
    Optimal angular resolution for face-symmetric drawings . 
D. Eppstein and
 K. Wortman .  arXiv:0907.5474 .   J. Graph
Algorithms and Applications  15 (4): 551–564, 2011 .
 
We consider drawings of planar partial cubes in which all interior faces are
centrally symmetric convex polygons, as in my previous
paper  Algorithms for Drawing Media . Among all
drawings of this type, we show how to find the one with optimal angular
resolution. The solution involves a transformation from the problem
into the parametric negative cycle detection problem: given a graph in
which the edge weights are linear functions of a parameter λ,
find the minimum value of λ for which the graph contains no
negative cycles.
  
    Category-based routing in social networks: membership dimension and the small-world phenomenon . 
D. Eppstein,
 M. T. Goodrich ,
 M. Löffler ,
 D. Strash , and
 L. Trott .  Workshop on Graph Algorithms and Applications , Zürich,
Switzerland, July 2011.  International Conference on Computational
Aspects of Social Networks (CASoN 2011) , Salamanca, Spain, October
2011.  arXiv:1108.4675 .   Theor. Comput. Sci.  514: 96–104, 2013 . (Special issue on Graph
Algorithms and Applications: in Honor of Professor Giorgio Ausiello)  
We investigate greedy routing schemes for social networks, in which
participants know categorical information about some other participants
and use it to guide message delivery by forwarding messages to neighbors
that have more categories in common with the eventual destination.
We define the membership dimension of such a scheme to be the maximum
number of categories that any individual belongs to, a natural measure
of the cognitive load of greedy routing on its participants.
And we show that membership dimension is closely related to the small
world phenomenon: a social network can be given a category system with
polylogarithmic membership dimension that supports greedy routing if,
and only if, the network has polylogarithmic diameter.
  
    Randomized speedup of the Bellman–Ford algorithm .  M. J. Bannister  and
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:1111.5414 .   Analytic Algorithmics and Combinatorics (ANALCO12) , Kyoto, Japan, 2012, pp. 41–47 .
 
The Bellman–Ford algorithm for single-source shortest paths in graphs
that may have negatively weighted edges but no negative cycles can be
sped up by a technique of Yen in which the graph is partitioned into two
directed acyclic subgraphs and edge relaxations alternate between these
two subgraphs. We show that choosing this partition randomly gains an
additional factor of 2/3 in running time.
  
    Solving single-digit Sudoku subproblems . 
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:1202.5074 .  6th International Conference on Fun with Algorithms (FUN 2012) ,
Venice, Italy, 2012.  Springer,  Lecture Notes in
Comp. Sci.  7288, 2012, pp. 142–153 .
 
We find an algorithm for making all possible deductions based on the set
of candidate locations for a single digit in a Sudoku puzzle; the
problem is NP-hard, and our algorithm takes exponential time, but the
mild form of the exponential allows it to be fast for practical problem sizes.
  
( Slides )
  
    Near-linear-time deterministic plane Steiner spanners and TSP
approximation for well-spaced point sets .  G. Borradaile  and
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:1206.2254 .  24th Canadian Conference on Computational Geometry (CCCG 2012) ,
Prince Edward Island, Canada, 2012, pp. 311–316.   Comp. Geom. Theory
&amp; Applications  49: 8–16, 2015  (special issue for CCCG 2012).
 
When a planar point set has the property that its Delaunay triangulation
has no large angles, we show how to connect it by a plane graph (having
linearly many additional Steiner vertices) in which the distances
between the original points are approximations to their Euclidean
distance, and in which the total graph weight is at most a constant
times the minimum spanning tree weight. The time to construct this graph
is near-linear, the same as for integer sorting. We use this result to
approximate the traveling salesman problem, for these point sets, in the
same time bound.
  
     k -best enumeration . 
D. Eppstein.   Encyclopedia of Algorithms   (Ming-Yang Kao, ed.), Springer, added 2014.  arXiv:1412.5075 .   Bull. EATCS  115, 2015 .
 
A brief survey of algorithms for finding the  k  shortest paths and
related  k -best enumeration problems. The arXiv/EATCS version is
significantly longer and with more references than the Springer version.
  
    Rooted cycle bases . 
D. Eppstein,
 J. M. McCarthy , and
B. E. Parrish.  arXiv:1504.04931 . 
14th Algorithms and Data Structures Symp. (WADS 2015), Victoria, BC.  Springer,  Lecture Notes in Comp. Sci.  9214 (2015), pp. 339–350 .
 
We consider the problem of finding a cycle basis for a graph in which
all basis cycles contain a specified edge. We characterize the graphs
having such a basis in terms of their vertex connectivity, we show that
the minimum weight cycle basis with this constraint can be found in
polynomial time and is weakly fundamental, and we show that finding a
fundamental cycle basis with this constraint is NP-hard but
fixed-parameter tractable.
  
( Slides )
  
    Approximate greedy clustering and distance selection for graph metrics . 
D. Eppstein,
 S. Har-Peled , and
 A. Sidiropoulos .  arXiv:1507.01555 .  
We provide fast approximation algorithms for the farthest-first
traversal of graph metrics.
  
     
 Graph Theory  --
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 