 Glossary<body>

 
 Glossary of Programming (and Java) Terms 
 
  
  


      Cascaded Method Calls  
 
In a cascaded method call, we use the result returned by one method (a
  reference to an object) to immediatley call another method.
If we declare  String s = "foo";  and then the cascaded method call
   s.toUpperCase().replace('F','G')  it returns a result of  "GOO" :
    toUpperCase  is called on the object  s  refers to, and returns 
  a reference to a new object whose state is  "FOO" ; the cascaded method
  call immediately calls  replace  on this reference, and return a
  reference to a newer object whose state is  "GOO" .
Cascaded method calls is similar to composition of functions in mathematics.
 
         Checked Exception  
 
A checked exception is a sublcass of Throwable but not of RunTimeException.
Such exceptions generally indicate an extra-logical failure (one not related
  to programming errors; e.g. EndOfFileException).).
They are required either to be caught, or appear in a method that specifies
  in its prototyp that it throws that kind of exception.
Contrast to Unchecked Exception.
 
         Access Modifier  
 
A Java keyword that describes whether/how some class member can be
  referred to (accessed).
Common access modifiers are  public ,  private ,  protected ,
   static , and  final .
 
         Accessor  
 
A Java method that examines the state of an object but does not change it
  is called an accessor
Accessors typically return a result (otherwise, calling one would produce
  not visible effect).
Accessors are often call "getters", and their names often start with
    get .
See mutator.
 
         Constructor  
 
A class member whose purpose is to help initialize all the fields of a class.
Constructors can be overloaded.
 
         Driver  
 
A program with a simple menu for testing the constructors and methods of
  a class.
The user selects which method to call via the menu, and the result of
  the operation is printed (often along with the current state of the
  object via the  toString  method).
 
         EBNF  
 
Extended Backus-Naur Form: A notation for formally describing the syntax of
  a programming language (i.e., specifying which programs are grammatically
  correct).
 
         Evaluate  
 
What Java does with an expression.
 
         Exception  
 
If a built-in Java operator or programmer supplied Java method cannot
   correctly compute its result (e.g., the user has specified the bad
   arguments) it throws an exception to indicate a problem.
Exceptions are classified as either checked or not-checked.
When such operators/methods occur in try/catch blocks, the programmer can
  indicate how to proceed if an exception is thrown.
 
         Excecute  
 
What Java does with a statement.
 
         Identifier  
 
A kind of token, used for names: variable names, method names, class names,
  etc.
Identifiers always start with letters; a dollar sign is allowed, but this
  character should be reserved for special identifiers created by the
  Java compiler.
 
         Immutable  
 
A class is immutable if is defines no mutator methods.
This means that once the state of an object is initialized by
  a constructor, it will never change.
 String  and the wrapper classes are all immutable.
 
         Java  
 
A programming language designed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems.
Java is meant to be easier (and safer) to use than C++ (the language that 
  it most closely resembles) at the cost of being less efficient.
The implications of this tradeoff are very interesting.
 
         Keyword  
 
A kind of token, used for names/identifiers reserved by Java with immutable
  meanings.
 
         Literal  
 
A kind of token, used for the value of a type.
Java allows us to specify literals for the primitive types int, double,
  boolean, and char; and for the reference/class type String.
 
         Members  
 
Java classes define and document three kinds of  members:
  constructors, methods, and fields.
Almost everything that we can say about a class is said about
  one of these members.
 
         Mutator  
 
A Java method that changes the state of an object is called a mutator.
Mutators typically do not return a result (are declared to return  void ),
  although some mutators both change state and return a result
  (e.g.,  nextToken  in  StringTokenizer ).
Mutators just change state, without looking at current values, are often call
  "setters", and their names often start with  set .
See accessor.
 
         new  
 
 new  is a unary prefix operator, which takes as an operand the
  name of any class.
Following the class name is a pair of open/close parentheses;
  inside these parentheses, separated by commas, is any information
  that the class requires to specify the initial state of the
  object being constructed.
The  new  operator constructs a new object from this class, initializes
  it, and then returns as a result (all operators return results) a reference
  to this object.
 
         Operator  
 
A kind of token, mostly used for arithmetic, relational, logical, or textual
  operations (operating on primtive types or references -but not on the
  state of the objects that they refer to).
 
         Overloaded  
 
An operator or method is overloaded if it has more than one prototype.
Java determines which actual operator/method to use based on its
  signature.
 
         Primitive Type  
 
A type built in to the Java language (as a keyword).
The main primtive types are  int ,  double ,  boolean ,
  and  char ; less often used primitive types are  short ,
   long , and  float .
 
         Prototype  
 
A specification of the types and exceptions involved in an operator or method.
It shows the types of the operands/parameter, the type of the result, and any
  exceptions that can be thrown during the computation.
 
         Reference Type  
 
A reference type includes the names of interfaces and classes (either declared
  in the standard Java library or by a programmer).
 
         Separator  
 
A kind of token, used for punctuation (period, comma, semi-colon) or grouping
  (parentheses, brackets, braces -which all come in paris: one for openining
  the group and one for closing it).
 
         Signature  
 
A specification of the types involved in an operator or method.
It shows the types of the operands/parameters only.
It is a subset of the prototype information (it omits the type of the result
  and any exceptions that can be thrown during the computation).
 
         Syntax Constraint  
 
An extra rule imposed by the compiler on some statement.
The rule either cannot be encoded in the EBNF, or it is just
  very cumbersome to do so.
Example: in an  if  statement, the  expression  in the
  parentheses (which is specified in the EBNF) must be of type
   boolean.
  
         Token  
 
The smallest lexical unit in a program.
The Java compiler scans the characters in a program, grouping them into tokens.
The 6 basic kinds of tokens are identifiers, keywords, separators, operators,
  literals (either type int, double, boolean, char, or String), and comments.
 
         Types  
 
Java types include primitive types and reference types.
Types are a bit more general than classes; while every class is a types,
   types also include interfaces.
 
         Variable  
 
Variables are declared to have names and types (either primitive or reference).
A variable of a primitive type a value of that type.
A variable of a reference type stores either  null  (meaning it
  refers to no object), or a reference to an object constructed from
  some compatible class: the object stores more information.
 
         Unchecked Exception  
 
An unchecked exception is a sublcass of RunTimeException.
Such exceptions generally indicate a programming error (e.g.
  IllegalArgumentException).
Contrast to Checked Exception.
 
    </body> 