 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Articles  


     
  

 
 

  June 3,  2004</strong>  Los Angeles Times    Big Donor Is Donald Bren, UC Irvine Says</strong>   By Jean O. Pasco</strong>   UC Irvine officials on Wednesday identified Irvine Co. Chief Executive Donald Bren as the anonymous donor who gave $20 million to UC Irvine's School of Information and Computer Science in December.    Bren will be honored at a campus ceremony and groundbreaking Wednesday for the new Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences.    His gift, the largest gift ever to UCI, provided more than $18 million for 10 endowed faculty chairs for the new school.    Since 1984, Bren has given more than $40 million to the university, endowing more permanent chairs than anyone in the campus' history.    Company officials said Bren made the donation anonymously through the Donald Bren Foundation last year to keep the focus on the school, which had yet to choose a dean or hire faculty.     The money allowed recruitment to begin in earnest, including the hiring of Dean Debra J. Richardson in March.    The school intended to recognize the Orange County billionaire's generosity at next week's groundbreaking, company and school officials said.    "We knew he'd be recognized down the road," company spokeswoman Jennifer Hieger said.    School officials said they honored Bren's request to delay identifying him to coincide with the announcement of the new dean, the groundbreaking and christening of the school's name.    "I am honored to have my name and support associated with the first computer science school in the UC system," Bren said in a prepared statement. "It is my hope and expectation that this school - and what it produces in the way of human capital and technological innovation - will be the force behind future breakthroughs in education, science and business that will lift our standard of living and quality of life."    Funds approved by voters in March with the passage of Proposition 55, as well as a companion initiative in November 2002, will pay for construction of a six-story, 138,000-square-foot research and classroom facility scheduled to open in fall 2006.    The new school was elevated from department status at UCI in December 2002 and has grown to more than 2,000 undergraduate and graduate students.  Big Donor Is Donald Bren, UC Irvine Says 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 