 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
Publications with
 
Kevin Verbeek
 
 
   Area-universal rectangular layouts . 
D. Eppstein,
E. Mumford,
 B. Speckmann , and
 K. Verbeek .  arXiv:0901.3924 .  25th Eur. Worksh. Comp. Geom. , Brussels, Belgium, 2009.   25th ACM Symp. Comp. Geom.,  Aarhus, Denmark, 2009, pp. 267–276 .
 
A partition of a rectangle into smaller
rectangles is "area-universal" if any vector of areas for the smaller
rectangles can be realized by a combinatorially equivalent partition.
These partitions may be applied, for instance, to cartograms, stylized
maps in which the shapes of countries have been distorted so that their
areas represent numeric data about the countries. We characterize
area-universal layouts, describe algorithms for finding them, and
discuss related problems. The algorithms for constructing area-universal
layouts are based on the distributive lattice structure of the set of
all layouts of a given dual graph.
  
Merged with
" Orientation-constrained rectangular layouts "
to form the journal version, " Area-universal and constrained rectangular layouts ".
  
( SoCG talk slides )
  
    Area-universal and constrained rectangular layouts . 
D. Eppstein,
E. Mumford,
 B. Speckmann , and
 K. Verbeek .   SIAM J. Computing  41 (3): 537–564, 2012 .
 
A combined journal version of
" Area-universal rectangular layouts "
and
" Orientation-constrained
rectangular layouts ".
  
( Local copy of article )
  
    Strict confluent drawing . 
D. Eppstein,
 D. Holten ,
 M. Löffler ,
 M. Nöllenburg , and
 B. Speckmann , and
 K. Verbeek .  arXiv:1308.6824 .  21st Int. Symp. Graph Drawing , Bordeaux, France, 2013.  Springer,  Lecture Notes in Comp. Sci.  8242, 2013, pp. 352–363 .   J. Computational Geometry  7 (1): 22–46, 2016 .
 
A confluent drawing of a graph is a set of points and curves in the
plane with the property that two vertices are adjacent in the graph if
and only if the corresponding points can be connected to each other by
smooth paths in the drawing. We define a variant of
confluent drawing, strict confluent drawing, in which a smooth path
between two vertices (if it exists) must be unique.
We show that it is NP-complete to test whether such drawings exist,
in contrast to unrestricted confluence for which the complexity remains open.
Additionally, we show that finding outerplanar drawings (in which the points
are on the boundary of a disk and the curves are interior to it) with a fixed
cyclic vertex ordering can be performed in polynomial time.
We use circle packings to find nice versions of these drawings in which
all tracks are represented by piecewise-circular curves.
  
     
 Co-authors  --
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 