 Towards Weaving the Visual Web – Page 3 – Ramesh Jain 
	
	 
				 
		 
								 
				   							
		 Search 
		
					  
								 
									Ramesh Jain								 
							 
												 Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher 
																
				 
	 	
		
	    About Ramesh 
   News  
	  Events  
  
  Towards Weaving the Visual Web  
  Research 
   Books  
	  Patents  
	  Presentations  
	  Projects  
	  Research Papers 
	   Computer Vision  
		  Experiential Computing  
		  Multimedia Information Management  
	  
  
  Teaching 
   Current Courses  
	  Past Courses  
  
  Entrepreneurship 
   Current Companies  
	  Past Companies  
  
  Partners 
   Current Students  
	  Past Students  
	  Collaborators  
  
  Professional/Social 
   Services  
	  Recognitions  
	  Interviews  
  
  Personal 
   Affiliations  
	  Education  
	  Favorite Books  
	  Favorite Quotes  
  
  Digital India: A potentially transformative opportunity  
  Navigation    
					 
				      Entrepreneur  
							 
				      Researcher  
							 
				      Teacher  
							  				
		 

 
	

 
    	 
    				 Objective Self 5:  Finally We may have Objective Self 
    			 
  			 
    			 As discussed above, the quantified-self movement is an important step in bringing scientific framework to understand an individual based on data collected continuously. This is the first time in history of humanity that this has become feasible. The early stages…  
  			 

  			
  			
  			 	        			
    			 
    				 By  Ramesh   |
    				  August 18, 2014   |
    				             		  General Updates   |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			 
    			 Read more     		 
			    		
		 
    				 Objective Self 4:  You are the Most Important. 
    			 
  			 
    			 To each of us, the most important object or entity is self. All human beings are interested in understanding self to maximize satisfaction from their life. This satisfaction maximization requires having a better model for individual life. Most sociological and…  
  			 

  			
  			
  			 	        			
    			 
    				 By  Ramesh   |
    				  August 4, 2014   |
    				             		  General Updates   |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			 
    			 Read more     		 
			    		
		 
    				 Objective Self 3: Quantified Self is a step towards Objective Self 
    			 
  			 
    			 The 21st century started with significantly advanced storage, processing, sensing, and communication technologies. All these have resulted in popularization of strong data-dependent approaches. Big Data became the biggest buzz word one can imagine. Since scientific approaches emphasized observation and systematic…  
  			 

  			
  			
  			 	        			
    			 
    				 By  Ramesh   |
    				  July 31, 2014   |
    				             		  General Updates   |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			 
    			 Read more     		 
			    		
		 
    				 Objective Self 2: Garbage Data results in Garbage Models 
    			 
  			 
    			 The interest in Self has been a complex but sustained quest in every culture. The issues that complicated this quest and continue to do so remain: • Getting enough objective data • Storing data • Analyzing data • Privacy of…  
  			 

  			
  			
  			 	        			
    			 
    				 By  Ramesh   |
    				  July 30, 2014   |
    				             		  General Updates ,  Technical Thoughts   |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			 
    			 Read more     		 
			    		
		 
    				 Objective Reality: 1 
    			 
  			 
    			 To most humans, the most important object is ‘self’. Humans have always been interested in understanding themselves and their relationship with their environment. Understanding the environment is important to survive and thrive in the present situation and plan for the…  
  			 

  			
  			
  			 	        			
    			 
    				 By  Ramesh   |
    				  July 29, 2014   |
    				             		  General Updates   |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			 
    			 Read more     		 
			    		
		   « Previous  
				  Next »  
			   


 
	


  


	    

	   
	   	
	   
	    
				 
			 
				    Copyright © 2017   Ramesh Jain   |  Theme by:   Theme Horse   |  Powered by:   WordPress    
			   Back to Top  		 

	 

</body> 