 graduate student policies @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Graduate  &gt;  policies  


     
 Graduate Student Policies: Advancing to Candidacy 

 
 

    Advancing to Candidacy for the M.S. Degree  
 Advancement to candidacy implies that a student is almost finished with his/her degree requirements.  This is not an automatic process . The students is responsible for making sure his or her form is completed and gets filed. The  Advancement to Candidacy form  should be submitted at least  one quarter before  the student plans on graduating. 
   
   Advancing to Candidacy for the Ph.D. degree 
 Prior to advance to candidacy for the Ph.D. degree, students must complete the following steps: 
  Complete coursework 
 Pass the Phase II exam at the Ph.D. level (if applicable to the student's program) 
 Complete a research or survey paper of publishable quality (if applicable to the student's program) 
  The advancement exam is an oral presentation to a five-member committee of senate faculty. Note that you may combine your Ph.D. advancement with your topic defense with the consent of your advisor. The committee must be composed of the Committee Chair, three general members, and one outside member. The Chair of the candidacy commitee must hold either a primary or joint appointment in the student's department, and the majority of the committee must be from the student's department. The outside member must be a UC Irvine faculty member and may not be affiliated with the student's department. 
 Each committee member must agree on the research you would like to complete for your doctoral dissertation. 
    »</strong>  Preparing for the Advancement Exam</strong> 
  Arrange a date when all involved parties can meet 
 Reserve a conference room with your department 
 The Ph.D. Form I can be downloaded from Graduate Division  here  
     »</strong>  After the Advancement Exam is complete</strong> 
  Get appropriate signatures on the Ph.D. Form I (including your own!) 
 The ICS Graduate Office can provide the Department Chair and Associate Dean signatures. 
 Pay $90 advancement fee at the Cashier's office 
 Turn form into Graduate Division (120 Aldrich Hall) 
    
   
     


 
 
 
  More Graduate » 
   Contact  
  Prospective students  
  How to Apply  
  Programs of study  
  Academic year plan  
  Forms  
  Policies  
  Funding &amp; housing  
  Computing support  
  Campus resources  
  Visit the Bren School  
  Graduate Student Handbook  
  
   Quick Links   
                        
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 