 user.websites.chimera2.concepts.attributes<body>

     Local Site Map 
   Overview  
  Viewers  
  Objects      Views  
  Anchors  
  Links      Attributes  
  Clients  
  Hyperwebs     

     

  Attributes  

 Attributes consist of a name and a value both stored as strings. They
can be attached to any of Chimera's hypermedia concepts. Typically, viewers
use the attribute mechanism to store application-specific information with
a concept to manipulate at a later time. This frees the viewer from having
to store this information separately. 

 For instance, links and anchors can be named by associating a  Name 
attribute with them. The name can then be used to display the concept in
lists in a more user-friendly manner. Another example, is using attributes
on anchors to store the information needed to reconstruct them for a particular
view. For instance, a rectangle on an image can be recreated if its top-left
and bottom-right coordinates are stored as attributes on the anchor which
represents the rectangle. 

 Developer Information 

 The available operations on attributes are listed below. The type  concept 
used in the table below indicates that these operations are available on
all of the previous hypermedia concepts (viewers, objects, views, anchors,
and links). For more information see the  on-line
documentation . 

       clearAttributes(concept)  
 Deletes all attributes associated with the specified concept.     deleteAttribute(concept, String)  
 Deletes the named attribute from the specified concept.     getAttribute(concept, String)  
 Returns the value of the named attribute associated with the specified concept.     getAttributes(concept)  
 Returns all of the attributes associated with the specified concept.     numberOfAttributes(concept)  
 Returns the number of attributes associated with the specified concept.     setAttribute(concept, attribute) 
setAttribute(concept, String, String)  
 Sets the specified attribute on the specified concept. The latter operation
avoids the creation of an attribute object by allowing the developer to
specify the name and value of the attribute directly. If the attribute already
exists on the concept, its value is updated with the new information supplied
by these operations.     setAttributes(concept, attributes)  
 Associates the specified set of attributes with the specified concept. As
with the previous operations, if an attribute is already specified, the
new information contained in the list replaces the previous value of the
attribute.    

      Local Site Map 
   Overview  
  Viewers  
  Objects      Views  
  Anchors  
  Links      Attributes  
  Clients  
  Hyperwebs     

  This page is part of the  Chimera 
web site. 
Send feedback and questions to  Ken
Anderson . 
 </body> 