 Eclipse Download and Installation Instructions<body>

 
 Eclipse Download and Installation (for Python) Instructions  
 
  
  
 Install Python and Java before installing Eclipse. 
  
You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can
  refer to them while downloading and installing Eclipse.
Or, just keep this document in your browser.
You should read each step completely before performing the action that it
  describes.
This document shows downloading and installing Eclipse on Windows 7
  in Winter 2017.
  
   Eclipse: (Neon) 
 

The Eclipse download requires about 250 MB of disk space; keep it on your
  machine, in case you need to re-install Eclipse.
When installed, Eclipse requires an additional 250 MB of disk space.
  

  Downloading 
  Click
     
      Eclipse  
    The following page will appear in your browser.
    In this handout we will download  Eclipse IDE for Eclipse Committers 
      for Windows 32 Bit; if your computer uses Windows, continue below;
      otherwise choose either  Mac Cocoa  or  Linux  instead.
      
       
    It is critical that Java, Python, and Eclipse are either all 32 Bit or are
       all 64 Bit (and only if your Machine/OS supports 64 Bit): I think it
       easiest to use 32 Bit for everything.

  
   Click the  32-Bit  (after Windows) to the right of the
       Eclipse IDE for Eclipse Committers .
     
    You will see the following page (don't worry about the name of the
      institution underneath the orange  DOWNLOAD  button).
      
       
   Click the orange  DOWNLOAD  button.
    The site named here, in orange to the right of the button:
       Canada - University of Waterloo Computer Science Clupb (http) 
      is the random one chosen by the download page this time; yours may differ.
     
    This file should start downloading in your standard download folder, while
      showing a splash screen about donating to Eclipse.
    This file is about 250 Mb so it might take a while to download fully if you
      are on a slow internet connection (it took me about 5 minutes over a
      cable modem).
    Don't worry about the exact time as long as the download continues to make
      steady progress.
    In Chrome progress is shown on the bottom-left of the window, via the icon
      
       
    The file should appear as
      
       
    Terminate the window browsing the Eclipse download.

  
   Move this file to a more permanent location, so that you can install Eclipse
      (and reinstall it later, if necessary).
 
   Start the  Installing  instructions directly below.
   
   Installing (for Python) 

 Python and Java should be installed before installing Eclipse 
 
   Unzip  eclipse-committers-newon-2-win32.zip , the file that you just
     downloaded and moved.
     
    On my machine (running Windows 7), I can
      Right-click the file.
      Hover over the  IZArc  command from the menu of options.
      Click  Extract Here 
       
       
    If you do not have IZArc or an equivalent unzipping program, here is the
      web site to download a free copy of
       IZarc .
      
    Unzipping this file creates a folder named  eclipse ; unzipping
      250 MB can take a few minutes.
    You can leave this folder here or move it elsewhere on your hard disk.
    I recommend putting the downloaded file and resulting folder in the
        C:\Program Files\  directory.

  
   Create a shortcut on your desktop to the  eclipse.exe  file in
      this  eclipse  folder:   
    On most Windows machines, you can
      Right-press the file  eclipse.exe 
      Drag it to the desktop.
      Release the right button.
      Click  Create shortcut here 
       
    Now you are ready to perform a  one-time only  setup of Eclipse on
      your machine.

  
   Double-click the shortcut to Eclipse that you just created above.
     

    The following splash screen will appear
      
       
    and then an  Eclipse Launcher  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
    In the  Workspace  text box, your name should appear between
       C:\Users\  and  \workspace , instead of  Pattis .
      
    Leave  unchecked  the 
       Use this as the default and do not ask again  box.
    Although you will use this same workspace for the entire quarter (checking
      projects in and out of it), it is best to see this
       Workspace Launcher  pop-up window each time you start Eclipse, to
      remind you where your workspace is located.
      
    In fact, it is a good idea to create on your desktop a shortcut to your
      workspace folder; but you must click  OK  (see below) before
      Eclipse creates this folder and you can create a shortcut to it.

   Click  OK .
     
    Progress bars will appear as Eclipse loads.
      
    Eventually the Eclipse workbench will appear with a  Welcome  tab
      covering it.
      
       
   Terminate (click  X  on) the  Welcome  tab.
     
    You will not see the  Welcome  tab when you start Eclipse again, after
      this first time.

  
   Click  Help  (on the far right of the line below this window's blue
      title  Java - Eclipse ) and then click
       Install New Software...  in its pull-down menu, as shown below.
     
       
    The  Install  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
   Enter the text (or cut/paste from this document)
       http://pydev.org/updates  into the  Work with  text box and
      press  Enter  (if that doesn't work, try
       http://www.pydev.org/updates ).
     
    In a few seconds the information under  Name  should change from  There is no site selected  to  Pending  to
      
       
    Select only the top  PyDev  checkbox; do  NOT  select the 
       PyDev Mylyn Integration (optional)  box. 
    Check before proceeding that the  Install  pop-up window appears as
      
       
   Click  Next &gt; 
     
    A new  Install  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
   Click  Next &gt; 
     
    A new  Install  pop-up window will appear.
      
    Select the  I accept the terms of the license agreement  radio button,
      so the window appears as
      
       
   Click  Finish 
     
    An  Installing Software  pop-up window will appear.
    During installation, it will show the various operations it is
      performing and a progress bar for each one.
    Because the installer is fetching various files online, this process might
      take a few minutes.
      
       
    If you see a  Security Warning  pop-up window
      
       
    Click  OK .
      
    The installation will pause, and  a  Selection Needed  pop-up window
      appears.
  
   Check the box labeled  Brainwy Software; Pydev; Brainwy .
     
    Check before proceeding that the  Install  pop-up window appears as
      
       
   Click  OK 
     
    The installation will finish (showing the final progress bars).
      
    A  Software Updates  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
   Click  Yes 
     
    Eclipse will terminate and restart.
    As you did in step 4, terminate (click  OK  on) the
       Welcome Tab .

  
   Click  Window  (to the left of  Help  on the far right of the 
      line below this window's blue title  workspace Java - Eclipse ) and
      then click  Preferences   in its pull-down menu, as shown below.
     
       
   Drill down to select the interpreter:
      Disclose  PyDev  by clicking the  +  in front of
              PyDev  or double-clicking   PyDev  (after the +); the
               +  changes to a  - .
        Disclose  Interpreters  by clicking the  +  in front of
              Interpreters  or double-clicking  Interpreters 
             (after the +); the  +  changes to a  - .
        Select  Python - Interpreter .   
    The  Preferences  pop-up window should appear as follows
     
       
   Click  New...  at the top-right of the top window
     
    A  Select Interpreter  pop-up window appears.
      
    Click  Browse  and the  Open  pop-up window should show you
      the folder in which Python was installed (here Python 3.6).
      
       
    Double-click  python.exe  (or select it and click  Open ).
      
    Change the  Name  in the  Select Interpreter  pop-up window
      to be simply  Python36 
      (or whatever version of Python is installed).
    The  Select Interpreter  pop-up window should appear as
      
       

  
    Click  OK .
     
    A  Selection needed  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
    Ensure that a check appears in all four checkboxes.

  
   Click  OK .
     
    The  Preferences  pop-up window will be changed to
      
       
    On my system the path to the Python interpreter was so long,
      not all of it could be seen under  Location  

  
   Click  OK .
     
    A  Progress Information  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
    During installation, it will show the various operations it is
      performing and a progress bar for each one.
    Eventually the installation will terminate.
      
    If the following pop-up window appears
      
       
    Ensure the  "Public networks, such as those in airports...." 
      checkbox is  NOT checked , and then click  Allow Access .
  

   Click  Window  (to the left of  Help  on the far right of the 
      line below this window's blue title  workspace - Java - Eclipse ),
      hover over  Perspective  then  Open Perspective  in the
      pull-down menu and then click
       Other...  in the next pull-down menu.
     
       
    The  Open Perspective  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
   Double-click  PyDev  (third from the bottom)
     
    The blue label on the Eclipse window will change to
        workspace - PyDev - Eclipse , the  Package Explorer  in the
       upper-left tab will change to  PyDev Package Explorer , and a
        PyDev  icon will appear to the right of the  Java  icon.
      
       
   Right-click the  Java  icon to the left of the  PyDev  icon
      and select  close 
     
       
    The Eclipse workbench will now have only the  PyDev  icon here and 
      will look like
      
       

   Locate the workspace folder created in step 3
      (see  C:\Users\ yourname \workspace )
      and download the
         courselib.zip 
      file into this workspace and unzip it there, producing the
       courselib  folder; it should should contain a bunch of Python
      module files (ending in  .py ).
    From time to time you will be asked to put other course-specific Python
      module files into this  courselib  folder; these modules will be
      usable in all Python projects in Eclipse.
 

   Inform Eclipse to use the  courselib  folder in all Python projects.
  Select  Window | Preferences .
    Disclose  PyDev  by clicking the  +  in front of
              PyDev  or double-clicking   PyDev  (after the +); the
               +  changes to a  - .
    Disclose  Interpreters  by clicking the  +  in front of
              Interpreters  or double-clicking  Interpreters 
             (after the +); the  +  changes to a  - .
    Select  Python - Interpreter .  
       
       Click the  Libraries  tab (leftmost, above the bottom pane)
      Click the  New Folder  button (topmost, right of the bottom pane)
      Browse to the  courselib  folder (added above) in the
           Browse for Folder  pop-up window
         ( C:\Users\ yourname \workspace\courselib ).
      Click the  courselib  folder selected, and then click  OK 
      Click  Apply  (you will see some progress bars) 
    The   pop-up window should now appear as
      
       
    Notice a fifth entry (ending in  courselib  appears at the bottom of
      the bottom pane named  System PYTHONPATH 
       Cick  OK 
   
   Terminate (click  X  on) the Eclipse window.
  
Eclipse is now installed for Python.
 
   

 </body> 