 ICS Day 2014 showcases community  @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 ICS Day 2014 showcases community 

 
 

   



 
The category is “History of Computing.”
 
 
“What was the first feature-length computer-animated film?” asks David Curtis, channeling  Jeopardy!  host Alex Trebek.
 
 
Hunched in front of MacBooks in two of the Kay Family Foundation Innovation Lab’s colorful, ergonomic swivel chairs, computer game science student Pavana Somisetty and his teammate, math major Albert Blattler, type frantically in search of the answer.
 
 
If this were  Jeopardy! , the response would have to be in the form of a question. But this is ICS Day  Jeopardy! 
 
 
“System dot out dot print  Toy Story !” Somisetty shouts, prefacing his answer with the required coding lingo. He’s correct. 
 
 
The mock  Jeopardy!  game — developed in part and hosted by ICS Student Council (ICSSC) member Curtis — was just one of several activities at ICSSC’s seventh annual all-day festival, ICS Day. Sponsored by Taco Bell, Barracuda Networks and MSC Software, the event hosted roughly 400 members of the ICS community as they celebrated the end of the school year.
 
 
“[ICS Day] displays the unique talents and culture that make up our community,” ICSSC member Delian Petrov said. “[It’s] our day to show the world that we are so much more than meets the eye.”
 
 
A fun reprieve from end-of-the-year pressures, the event consisted of two coding competitions, tech-themed games, booths featuring student organizations, dance crew performances, interactive presentations, corporate recruiters, a photo booth and every student’s two favorite words: free food.
 
 
Petrov said the photo booth was his personal favorite. “The photo booth allowed people to take goofy pictures with friends while commemorating the spirit the day. It was really successful,” he said.
 
 
Upbeat music from artists like Michael Jackson and Justin Timberlake filled ICS Plaza, along with crowds of students ambling through activities set up by ICS student organizations. The clubs present included: the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM); the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE); Management Information Student Society (MAISS); Video Game Development Club (VGDC); Design, Art, and Technology Makerspace (DATSpace); and Women in Information and Computer Sciences (WICS). 
 
 
The WICS table beckoned attendees with a colorful assortment of “Snap Circuits” —educational toys that allow players to build electronics with parts mounted on plastic modules that snap together. Away from the hubbub of ICS Plaza, eight students set out to solve coding conundrums in an ICS classroom for a shot at $50.
 
 
Some students flocked to an inflatable jousting ring set up near the stairs of ICS Plaza, while others took turns at the most popular attraction: the dunk tank. Lecturer Shannon Alfaro, ICSSC’s faculty advisor, graciously volunteered to sit in the dunk tank (as she has done for several years). Armed with an orange-and-green Super Soaker, she matched students’ pitches with her own well-placed water shots. ICSSC begins planning ICS Day almost five months in advance. “We plan the budget, the events, the food, the shirts, and then we plan for when what we planned changes 180 degrees,” Petrov said. 
 
 
With that much to coordinate, it won’t be long before ICSSC begins preparing for next year’s festivities.


 
  
   — Story by Courtney Hamilton  
   — Photo by Bobby Farmer 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 