  Chimera Concepts - Overview<body>

     Local Site Map 
   Overview  
  Architecture  
  Concepts  
  Integration  
     Papers      

     

 An Overview of Chimera's Hypermedia Concepts 

 Chimera is based on a flexible set of hypermedia concepts: viewers, objects,
views, anchors, links, attributes, clients, and hyperwebs. These concepts
allow an application's hypermedia needs to be easily modeled and then implemented
by making the appropriate calls on Chimera's application program interface
(API). In fact, the primary task of integrating an application with Chimera
is making the appropriate API calls to create persistent instances of these
concepts in a Chimera hyperweb. This section of the Chimera website is devoted
to explaining Chimera's concepts and how they allow an application to take
advantage of Chimera's hypermedia services. A summary of the concepts appears
below with links leading to a more detailed discussion of each concept. 

      Viewers  
 Viewers are used to display and manipulate information. Example viewers
include image applications, database programs, and word processors.     Objects  
 Object is a generic term for application-specific information. This information
can be persistent or transient. Objects can be practically anything including
widgets within an application window, a file of image data, or a reference
to a large database. Composite objects are also supported.     Views  
 Views are the result of combining a viewer with a particular object. It
is typically realized by the viewer creating a graphical depiction of a
particular object. For example, the display of a GIF image is a view produced
by a GIF viewer after processing a GIF image file.     Anchors  
 Anchors denote regions of interest within a view. These regions are typically
selectable and can both initiate and receive link traversal events. Anchors
can be either view-specific (anchors made possible by application-specific
features of the viewer displaying the view) and view-independent (anchors
which can be displayed by any viewer displaying the view).     Links  
 Links are sets of anchors. Since anchors are associated with views and objects
at a conceptual level, links can easily relate information stored in different
formats and accessed by different applications. In this manner, Chimera
directly supports the heterogeneity common in today's modern computing environments.     Attributes  
 All of the previous concepts can have one or more attributes associated
with them. An attribute is defined by its name and value. An example attribute
is ("anchor-x-y", "20,30").     Clients  
 Clients are applications which make use of Chimera's hypermedia services.
Clients contain contain one or more viewers and manage their access to the
Chimera server. In addition, when a client receives an event from the Chimera
server, it is responsible for routing the event to the appropriate viewer.     Hyperwebs  
 A hyperweb is a persistent network of Chimera's hypermedia concepts along
with their attributes. Hyperwebs are stored within the document space of
a WWW server allowing them to be referenced and accessed via URLs. Hyperwebs
can be hierarchically composed.         Local Site Map 
   Overview  
  Architecture  
  Concepts  
  Integration  
     Papers      

  This page is part of the  Chimera 
web site. 
Send feedback and questions to  Ken
Anderson . 
 </body> 