 Database Research Group @ UCI 

 
     
     
       [  Home  |
       Research  | 
       Publications  | 
       People  | 
       Partners  | 
       Demos  ] 
      [  Courses  | 
       Software  | 
       Links   |
       Internal  |
       Search  | 
       Joining Our Group  ]
      
     
  

   
        
     
      Java Based Demo
     
     
        
         
      The MARS image database management system currently supports the similarity
      queries based on:
      
         Key Words  
            Creator's name  
             Creator's culture  
             Material used  
             Year  
              Image Content   
             Global Color   
          We compute the color histogram in HSV space and use histogram intersection
          method to compute the similarity distance.  

            Global Texture   
          We compute the three texture features for each image, i.e. Coarseness,
          Contrast, and Directionality. We use histogram intersection and Euclidean
          distance to calculate the similarity distance.  

            Color/Texture Layout   
          We divide each image into 5 by 5 sub-images and compute the color/texture
          features for each sub-image separately. We have a color picker and texture
          picker in our demo so the use can fill in the 5 by 5 grid using these color/texture
          feature and then make a query based on this color/texture layout information.
           

            Shape   
          We first use Attraction-based grouping to segment out the object in the
          image. Then, we use a modified Fourier Descriptor to represent the object
          boundary. Since this MFD is invariant to translation, rotation, scaling
          and starting point of the boundary, the matching is extremely fast.  
             
      The image collection comes from the Fowler Museum and is a collection
      of ancient African artifacts.
        
        Selected Publications 
           Sharad Mehrotra, Yong Rui, Michael Ortega-Binderberger and Thomas S. Huang,
           "Supporting Content-based Queries over Images in MARS" ,  submitted to ICMC 97.  

            Thomas S. Huang, Sharad Mehrotra and Kannan Ramchandran,  "Some Challenging Issues in 
          Image Content-based Access and Retrieval" ,  33rd Annual Clinic on Library Application of
          Data Processing "Digital Image Access and Retrieval", March 1996. 
          
            Yong Rui, Alfred C. She, and Thomas S. Huang,  "Automated Shape Segmentation Using 
          Attraction-based Groupingc in Spatial-Color-Texture Space" ,  ICIP-96, Lausanne, Switzerland. 
          
            Yong Rui, Alfred C. She, and Thomas S. Huang,  "Modified Fourier Descriptors for Shape 
          Representation - A Practical Approach" ,  First International Workshop on Image Databases
          and Multi Media Search, 1996, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
           
     
 
  
        
      For any problems, questions or suggestions about this page, please contact, 
      Mario Espinoza - (  espinoza@ics.uci.edu  ) 
     
       rev. 
       Feb. 07, 2001
       
     
     


</body> 