 
Hacking Barney
<body>
 
 
Exploring Software Tools for Programmable Embodied Agents
  or 
 
Hacking Microsoft Barney
 
 
 "These guys are a force for good" -- Garry Trudeau 
  
 
 
At Christmas 1997,
 Melinda 
bought me a fine example of the value
and role of technology in our society -- a "Talk-With-Me Barbie" by
 Mattel .
Talk-With-Me Barbie is all that we would expect of Barbie, and
more, because she really talks. Through the wonders of technology,
Barbie can talk with you on your (or her) favourite topics, everything
from shopping to slumber parties. Barbie is programmed via infra-red
as she sits at her computer terminal, which is plugged into the back
of your PC; her CD-ROM contains all sorts of things for her to say.
  
This naturally raises a whole set of questions about just how Barbie
works, and how she can be programmed to say things that Mattel didn't
think to include on the CD-ROM. In fact, Barbie could be a really
useful part of my everyday computing environment, warning me about
network outages, telling me when my print job has been completed, and
reminding me when it's time to go to meetings.
  
 
Talk-With-Me Barbie isn't the only device on the market which offers
this sort of potential. Another candidate is
Microsoft
 
ActiMates Barney , based on the
 popular children's character .
Microsoft Barney is a plush purple dinosar that can talk, sing, and
play games. Barney can also be controlled by an RF device that plugs
into your television set or PC and can pick up instructions striped on
the TV signal or encoded in the software to control the child's toy.
In many ways, Barney offers even more potential that Barbie since
Barney also has input sensors (in his paws and a light-sensor behind
his eyes) and can move his limbs.

  
You can probably see where I'm going with this.
  
Over the summer, a group of us
at  
Xerox PARC  decided to make the dream a reality. With a
couple of Barney dolls, a PC, a pile of Barney applications and a
 
smart student intern , we set about experimentally determining the
protocol by which Barney was controlled. By the end of the summer,
after much work and endless playing and replaying of the Barney
programs, we had a student who could sing all the Barney songs
backwards, and a pile of interesting local software.
  
 
The end result is the "Barney Protocol Stack", a set of software
components that applications can use to drive Barney. The basic Barney
control mechanism is implemented as a
 Delphi  component.
It can be
driven directly via an on-screen control panel, to move Barney
around, play sound samples or read his sensors.  Alternatively,
it can listen on a network socket for remote control connections.
The remote interface allows applications to be written that talk to a
remote Barney server; you can telnet to Barney (which is more than I
can do to my NT box). This network protocol level is wrapped up by a
 Java  class
called
 BarneyConnection ,
which offers facilities to move
Barney's arms and legs and register to be
informed when his sensors are activated.
  
Using the Barney Protocol Stack, we built a number of applications for
Barney. Some were simply feedback applications, that would tell you
the progess of activities such as printing your document. Some were
monitoring applications that revealed the state of other systems, such
as the current network status. Some were communicative applications,
such as one which allowed two people to communicate through "Barney
semaphore".
  
So far, getting Barney to say things he doesn't already know how to
say still eludes us. We know he uses LPC encoding, but we don't know
how the LPC information is striped across the transmitted packets. So
for now, our Barney applications can only say things that Barney
already knew how to say on one of his applications. The up-side of
this is that Barney is always in character; he'll say
"Super-dee-duper" rather than "print job accepted". The down-side of
this is that it's very hard to find instances of Barney saying
negative things; so he'll say "Please try again" (the most negative
thing he has to say) instead of "your stupid printer messed up again".
  
You can read
 
a paper about this work ,
which appeared in the
 CHI'99 conference .
You can also read
 
the reviews  it received.
  
Cast of characters:
 
Michael Kaminsky , as the hard-working intern;
 
Paul Dourish  and
 
Keith Edwards  as the progenitors;
 Mike Salisbury 
and  
LaMarca , as the evil geniuses;
 Ian Smith 
as partner in crime; and Barney, as himself.
  
    Cruel Site of the Day , February
16 1999.  </body> 