 Students Reap Campus Awards spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Students Reap Campus Awards 

 
 

 
    Dean Hal Stern (center) with student leaders from various Bren School organizations, including the ICS Student Council and WICS.</strong> 
 
  
Three Bren:ICS student organizations and a freshman computer science major took home Anteater Awards at a May 18 ceremony, for their achievements throughout the 2010-11 academic
year.  
 
The year-old ICS Student Council was named Most Outstanding Social/Support Organization and was a runner-up for Most Outstanding Executive Board. Most Outstanding Special Interest Organization went to Women in Information and Computer Science (WICS); the Video Game Development Club was a finalist in the same category. Freshman Nithin Jilla, founder of Kenya Dream at UCI — a student and community-based organization dedicated to improving secondary education facilities in Kenya — won President of the Year. 
 
“Being part of Kenya Dream is something I love to do and something I'm passionate about, so my involvement doesn’t feel like work,” says Jilla, who credits part of his leadership skills to lessons learned in the classroom. 
 
“One of the things I’ve learned as a computer science major is to be patient and persistent,” he adds. “In agile software development, for example, you have to set priorities and work collaboratively. These are strategies that I utilize with the Kenya Dream team.” 
 
For WICS president Rachita Gehi, the Anteater Award symbolizes the WICS board and members’ hard work over the past year. They’ve been busy organizing such events as information sessions hosted by Fortune 500 companies, a mentorship program and a conference funded by the
National Center for Women &amp; Technology.  
 
“Our goal is to build a strong bond among our peers and to offer them
the necessary support they need to succeed as Bren:ICS students,” she says.  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 