 Peyman Oreizy<body>
   
      Peyman Oreizy 
  	  Ph.D. , Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences, UC Irvine 
  	 Email:  peyman at oreizy dot com  
  	 Phone:  +1 (425) 442-9692  
  	   
	

   
       Home  
        Recent and Notable  
        Background  
        Dissertation  
        Papers and Talks  
        Recent History  
      Old Pages 
       Dynamic Software Architecture Resources  
        Software Adaptation Techniques  
      
  
   
    
      Recent and Notable  
     
      In May 2008, I received the  Most 
      Influential Paper Award  for a paper that appeared at the 1998 
       International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) , along with my co-authors
      Nenad Medvidovic and Richard N. Taylor. The award recognizes the paper with the most influence
      on theory or practice during the 10 years since its publication. 
      Our original 1998 paper is available here:
     
      
     
       Peyman Oreizy, Nenad Medvidovic, Richard N. Taylor . "Architecture-Based Runtime Software Evolution".
       Proceedings of the International Conference on Software Engineering 1998 (ICSE'98) , pages 177-186, Kyoto,
      Japan, April 19-25, 1998. 
       Paper in  PDF  
     
    
     
      We were invited to write a retrospective paper and present a talk at the 2008 ICSE conference. 
      The paper and talk are available here:
     
      
     
       Peyman Oreizy, Nenad Medvidovic, Richard N. Taylor . "Runtime software adaptation: 
      framework, approaches, and styles".  In Companion of the 30th international Conference on Software Engineering 
      (Leipzig, Germany, May 10 - 18, 2008). ICSE Companion '08. ACM, New York, NY, 899-910.
       ACM DOI .
       Paper in  PDF   
       Presentation in  PDF  
     
        
     In 2009, we elaborated on some of the ideas in our retrospective paper. The paper is available here: 
    
     
       Richard N. Taylor, Nenad Medvidovic, Peyman Oreizy . "Architectural Styles for Runtime Software Adaptation",
       Joint Working IEEE/IFIP Conference on Software Architecture 2009 &amp; European Conference on Software Architecture 2009 .
       Paper in  PDF  
     
        
      Background  
     
      I received my doctorate in the area of software engineering, as a member of the 
       Software Research Group 
      (now the  Institute for Software Research )
      at UC Irvine's  Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences .
      My research was in the areas of 
       dynamic software architectures  and 
	     
	      decentralized software evolution .
	   
	  
     
      Here is a picture of our software group at the time (aka "The Dream Team"):
     

     
        

     
      Left-to-right, standing: 
       Peyman Oreizy , 
       Yuzo Kanomata , Clay Cover, 
       Dick Taylor , 
       David Rosenblum , 
       Neno Medvidovic ,
       Elisabetta DiNitto  (visiting from Politecnico di Milano), 
       Joe Feise , 
       Michele Rousseau , 
       Shilpa Shukla , 
       Peter Kammer , Ed Kraemer, 
       Michael Kantor , 
      John Doe, and
       Rohit Khare .
     

     
      Seated, L-to-R: 
       David Hilbert ,
       Debi  Brodbeck ,
       Jason Robbins ,
       Jim Whitehead ,
      and Aileen Broccardo.
     

     
      Absent: Greg Bolcer, 
       Roy Fielding , 
       Kari Nies , and 
       David Redmiles 
     
    
      Dissertation  
     
      My dissertation,  
      Open Architecture Software: A Flexible Approach to Decentralized Software Evolution ,
      describes a novel way of constructing software systems that are easy for other developers
      to change. The crux of the technique is to expose the  architectural model 
      of a software system (i.e., its component parts, their interconnections, and the implementation mapping) 
      as an  explicit  and  malleable  part of
      the software package. My dissertation also describes a framework for comparing
      similar techniques, including APIs, plug-ins, open-source, and event-based systems.
     
    
     
      My dissertation committee members were  
      Richard N. Taylor  (chair, UC Irvine),  David S. Rosenblum  (University College London),
      and  David Notkin  (University
      of Washington).
     
      
     
      In 2008,  Roy Fielding  (of REST fame) gave a really nice keynote talk
      that mentioned my dissertation work in the context of open-source software. You can 
       watch a recording of the talk
      (video + slides) , titled "Open Architecture". Roy's 2008 talk at OSCON, 
       Open Architecture at REST , 
      also mentions my dissertation work
      ( Roy's OSCON slides ).
     
    
     
      My dissertation is available in 
       PDF (30mb) ,
       gzipped (3.5mb) , and
       zipped (3.5mb) .
     

      Papers and Talks  
       Peyman Oreizy's papers and talks  
       Recent History  
       
        Currently, I am Partner at  Launch21 , 
        a software consultancy based in Seattle, with  Alex Hopmann .
       

         
        Before that, I worked at Microsoft Corp. on Windows. While there, I worked on
        communication and collaboration features for 
         Windows Explorer  
        (the file system browser, not the Web browser) and as the technical lead for the networking stack of 
         Microsoft Max , a peer-to-peer file
        sharing application.
       

       
        Before that, I worked at  
        Endeavors Technologies  with Michael Gorlick, 
         Greg Bolcer ,
         Art Hitomi ,
        Clay Cover, 
         Peter Kammer ,
        and many others. While there, I worked on a dynamically reconfigurable HTTP server
        for handheld and embedded devices and a peer-to-peer search engine.
       
  
       
        Before that, I co-founded  KnowNow 
        with  Rohit Khare 
        and  Adam Rifkin . I built
        the first dozen or so proof-of-concept demos and the initial prototypes of the client
        and server platforms.  

       
        When I'm not working, I tinker with personal projects. Recently, I've been helping
        my wife build a website devoted to  traveling with kids .
       
   
  
</body> 