 SLI | Classes / CS271 Student Discussion Page <body>

       
   
  
     
     (?) 
   

     
           Classes 
   Group 
   Research 
   Publications 
   Code 
       
 

       

            login 
   

         
            Classes  / 
           CS271 Student Discussion Page  

 
  Back to Course Page  
   ihler  —  
  
 Feel free to add (anonymous or signed) comments, questions, or other discussion items about the class, including lecture, homework, etc.  Please remain polite.  I reserve the right to moderate and remove posts.  Posts must be made from UCI machines.  For anonymous posts, just use any name (like, "anonymous").
  
    
 
   
   
 anon  —   25 May 2011, 18:59    
   
 After reading the question, I do not quite grasp the meaning of "How many
non-redundant equations are there" if there are eight entries for joint
distribution P(X,Y,Z).  Could you clarify the question for me?
 
   There are 8 entries in the joint probability table, with values a...h.  But, an arbitrary set of 8 values will not satisfy the statement that X&amp;Y are independent given Z.  Only certain probability tables satisfy that condition.  What are the constraints on a...h to make that statement hold?  And, what is the fewest number of such constraints I can write down to guarantee that it holds? 
 
   
   
   
 anon  —   25 May 2011, 18:58    
   
 I am a little confused by homework question #2.  It first specifies Z as a Boolean random variable, then later has Z "as a set of equations relating a through h."  What is meant by that last part?
 
   To add more punctuation and some text to Bishop's question, 
 
  Express the statement that, "X and Y are conditionally independent given Z" as a set of equations relating the values of a...h. 
 
   In other words, a...h are the values of the joint probability table. But, for variables with a conditional independence relationship, a...h are not completely arbitrary (they must satisfy a factorization criterion).  Express that criterion in terms of their values. 
  
 

       
       
      Last modified May 25, 2011, at 07:00 PM 
     
     Bren School of Information and Computer Science   University of California, Irvine 
     
   
</body> 