 COVERT Tool - Software Engineering and Analysis Lab (SEAL) 
 
	
	 
			  Software Engineering and Analysis Lab (SEAL)  

			 
				 Search 
			 

			
				 Skip to content 
				    About SEAL  
  Members  
  Publications  
  Research Projects  
  Tools  
  Blog  
  			 

		 
			 
				
				 
					 Search for: 
					 
							 
		 
	 

 


	 
		 
			
 COVERT Tool  
		 
 
  Welcome to  COVERT homepage.  COVERT is a tool for compositional verification of Android inter-application vulnerabilities. It automatically identifies vulnerabilities that occur due to the interaction of apps comprising a system. Subsequently, it determines whether it is safe for a bundle of apps, requiring certain permissions and potentially interacting with each other, to be installed together. 
  
   Architecture 
 
 COVERT tool is implemented in two layers: the back-end that performs analysis on the apps to find potential vulnerabilities, and the front-end that provides an interactive environment intended for use by the end users. 
     
  
 
   Back-end Tool (COVERT Engine) 
 The core components of COVERT tool that analyze the apps to detect security vulnerability issues are implemented in the back-end layer. As depicted in Figure above, this layer consists of two modules:  Model Extractor  that leverages static analysis techniques to automatically extract an abstract formal model of Android apps, and  Formal Analyzer  that is intended to use lightweight formal analysis techniques to find vulnerabilities in the extracted app models. 
 
  
   This part is described in COVERT’s  TSE paper  and  web page .   
  
   Front-end Tools 
 
 
     
 
 In order to facilitate the end-user interactions with COVERT back-end engine, we implemented client applications for different platforms: Desktop Application, which is a stand- alone tool that calls back-end components and visualizes the generated results. Mobile and Web-based applications that work together to analyze the installed apps in a mobile device and show the vulnerability report on web browsers. 
  
   Demo 
 This video demonstrates the main features of COVERT tool. 
 
 
 
 COVERT Demo 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   Download and Installation 
 COVERT Back-end as well as the desktop Front-end tool for Windows and Mac are available here for download.The user manual is also downloadable from this  link . 
  
 
   COVERT Back-end   
 COVERT Client Tools
   COVERT Desktop for Mac  
  COVERT Desktop for Windows  
  COVERT Mobile app for Android  
  COVERT Web app  
  
  
  
   Publications 
 Alireza Sadeghi, Hamid Bagheri, and Sam Malek. “ Analysis of Android Inter-App Security Vulnerabilities Using COVERT .” In proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE 2015), Demonstrations track, Florence, Italy, May 2015.  [bib]  
	 
 
	 
 

 
		 University of California, Irvine 
	
		 
		   
		
				 
					 Search for: 
					 
				 
	 

		 

		 
								 Proudly powered by WordPress 
			 
		 

	</body> 