 Sponsor a Project Class @ The Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                      GET INVOLVED  
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Get involved  &gt;    &gt;  Community  


     
 Sponsor a Project Class 

 
 

 
The Informatics Department in the Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at UC Irvine runs project courses in two sizes:  one-quarter and three-quarters.  We are looking for project sponsors.  
 
 
Informatics projects involve using good software engineering processes interlaced with human centered methods to build and install something useful for you.  Projects include different types of sources and sponsors ranging from corporate projects to university based, community-driven, non-profit or entrepreneurial projects.  Project implementations range from web applications and portals to online services, cloud computing, ipad, iphone and mobile applications.
 
 
 One-Quarter Project Class  
Currently our one-quarter class is held during different times of the year, and is determined by enrollment. If you are interested, please contact us so that we can put you on the wait list for the class. The sponsorship amount for this project class is $4,500.
 
 Three-Quarter Project Class  
Each year we offer our three-quarter class starting in spring quarter and ending in winter quarter of the following year. If you are interested, project proposal deadlines are due six weeks prior to the starting of class. The sponsorship amount for this project class is $12,500.
 
 
   
 
For more information contact:
 
 
 
 Informatics 117 – Software System Design (One-Quarter Project)  
Professor Hadar Ziv at  ziv@ics.uci.edu 
 
 
 Informatics 132 – HCI &amp; User Interface (One-Quarter Project)  
Professor Alfred Kobsa at  kobsa@uci.edu
 
 
 
 Informatics 191 – Senior Design Project: Usability Engineering &amp; Software Development (Three-Quarter Project)  
Professor Judith Olson at  jsolson@uci.edu  
Professor Hadar Ziv at  ziv@ics.uci.edu  
 


 
 
 
  Opportunities for Engagement » 
   Tech Talks  
  Information Sessions  
  Sponsor a Project Class  
  Dean’s Leadership Council  
  Corporate Partners  
  Sponsored Internship Program  
  Tech Jobs  
  Butterworth Product Development Competition  
  
   Quick Links   
                        
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 