 Strategies for Classroom Communication in English<body>
  
  
 
 Strategies for  
 
 Effective Classroom Communication  
 
 in English  
  
 Classroom teaching isn't easy.  It's
even harder if you're not doing it in your native language.  But you
can still communicate effectively if you apply these strategies:  
  
 Speak slowly.  Your students will have more
time to understand what you're saying and you'll have more time
to choose your words.  It's fine to be silent for a few seconds, too;
pauses let students catch up.    
 
 Look at your students.  By maintaining eye
contact, you can see if your students are following along as you speak.    
 
 Welcome students' questions on any topic.
 If your students know that you're willing to answer questions, they'll
help you be clearer by letting you know when you aren't.    
 
 Write a short outline of your presentation
on the board in advance (or use overhead transparency slides or computer-based
slides).  This helps students follow along.    
 
 Write each key term on the board (or use slides).
 Also, make particularly sure that you have the correct pronunciation of
the key terms you're teaching about.  Check with a native English speaker
in your field and practice those words especially.  
  
 Developing fluency in a second language doesn't
happen overnight; it's a developmental process that occurs over many
years.  Nobody should expect to speak like a TV announcer right away.  Nonetheless,
you can accelerate the development of your skills by taking every opportunity
to exercise them:  Spend a lot of time (both social and academic) with colleagues
who are native English speakers.  Listen to English television and radio.
 Even reading the newspaper in English will help develop your language skills.
 Adults often feel embarrassed when they can't speak as well in their
second language as they can in their native language, but despite those
feelings, you should take every opportunity to use English in conversation.
 As you do this, you will become more comfortable in the classroom and a
more effective teacher.  
 </body> 