 Google Career Panel – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         
         
             

                            
                 Google Career Panel 
                          
                                
                                         

            
               Info Session    by admin 

            
                        on 10/31/2012 

                                
                                
                                
		   
				   
			    
				   
			    
				   
			     
				   
			    
				   
			    

 The Google discussion panel was incredibly informative and the panelists were very forthcoming with information about being a woman in CS, what it’s like to work at Google, and how to be a good Google candidate.  We had over 45 members attending the event, and many enthusiastically rushed up to talk to the panelists after the event! 
 We had many delicious sandwiches and (amazing) ‘swag’ before the panel, and we had the fantastic opportunity of talking to the panelists one-on-one after the panel ended. 
 Google will be working with WICS on future projects this academic year, and have been very helpful and enthusiastic about working with our active WICS chapter.   Thank you to Google for hosting this event with WICS! 
   Share this:        Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)        
 
	  Related  
 
                                  

                             
         
     

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 
</body> 