 Heesch's Problem<body>

     

  Heesch's Problem 

The  Heesch number  of a shape in the plane is the maximum
number of times that shape can be completely surrounded by copies
of itself. What possible values can this number take? 

 More formally, if one has a  tiling  of the plane (a
collection of disjoint connected open sets the closures of which cover the
plane), the  first corona  of a tile is the set of all tiles
that have a common boundary point with the tile, including the
original tile itself. The  second corona  is the set of tiles
that share a point with something in the first corona, and so on.
The Heesch number of a shape is the maximum value of  k  for
which all tiles in the  k th corona of any tiling are
congruent to that shape. 

 The Heesch number of a triangle, quadrilateral, regular hexagon,
or any other shape that can tile the plane, is infinity.
Conversely, an argument based on the axiom of choice shows that a
shape with infinite Heesch number must tile the plane. But the
Heesch number of a circle is zero, because it can't even be
surrounded once by copies of itself without leaving some uncovered
space. 

 Heesch's problem is to determine the largest possible finite
Heesch number, or more generally what values other than zero and
infinity can occur as the Heesch numbers. For a long time the
record holder was a shape found by Robert Ammann, consisting of a
regular hexagon with small projections on two sides and matching
indentations on three sides. It was believed that
this shape had Heesch number three, until in April 2000
 Alex Day  pointed
out that the actual number is four (perhaps this simply reflects
a disagreement on the definition of a tiling, since his tiling is not
simply connected -- the common boundary of certain pairs of tiles is
disconnected). 

   

 As can be seen in the picture above, there exist tilings in which
copies of the same
shape are used all the way out to the fourth corona. One way of
proving that this gives the Heesch number of this shape would be to
go through a case analysis showing that no fifth-corona tiling is
possible. 

 However a more elegant argument is possible. First note that one
can not even produce a single corona without placing the tiles
according to the standard hexagonal tiling, with indentations on
one tile matched by projections on the adjacent tile. If one could
fill the fourth corona this way, it would have 61 hexagons, 122 projections,
and 183 indentations, so there would be at least 61 unmatched
indentations on the outside boundary of the corona. However the
same fourth corona would have only 54 hexagon edges on its outside
boundary, which is not enough to hold all those unmatched
indentations. Therefore the only way to fill the fourth corona is to
match some pairs of indentations with flat sides or each other,
forming small holes that prevent the creation of a fifth corona. 

 If, instead, we had formed a tile with three projections and two
indentations per hexagon, the same argument would show that its Heesch
number is three. 

 Other shapes are known with Heesch numbers one or two (see for
instance Anne Fontaine, "An infinite number of plane figures with
Heesch number two",  J. Comb. Th. A  57 (1991) 151-156). Very
recently there has been significant progress on the problem: W. R.
Marshall found a shape with Heesch number four
(formed by indenting and outdenting the union of two hexagons, prior to
Day's discovery that Heesch's tile achieves the same number), and
 Casey Mann 
has found a similarly indented and outdented pentahex with Heesch number
five! (Or maybe even six with the same definition as Day.) 

   

 It remains open whether any polygon has higher Heesch number,
but these new techniques seem very powerful and likely to lead to
further results. Mann writes that that "rounder" polyominoes than
the long-skinny ones he's been using may have a better chance of
giving unbounded Heesch numbers. 

 The Heesch number question seems closely connected to two other
famous open tiling problems: does there exist an algorithm for
determining whether a shape can tile, and does there exist a shape
that can only tile aperiodically? Aperiodic tiling seems to act as
a barrier to the existence of tiling algorithms, so it is not
expected that both of these problems have the same answer. On the
other hand, if no finite Heesch number is larger than some  
k , then it seems that this could be used as the basis of an
algorithm to test whether a shape tiles: simply attempt to fill out
a tiling to the ( k +1)st corona; if successful, the shape
must tile the plane, and if not, the shape does not tile. 

 One can also ask similar questions about Heesch numbers for
tilings in higher dimensions, for plane groups other than
congruence, or for restricted classes of shapes, however I don't
know any answers... 

  See also:  

   S. Dutch's
page on Heesch tilings  

  Erich
Friedman's page on Heesch tilings  

  Casey
Mann's page on Heesch tilings  and
 tile
with Heesch number 1 and surround number 2 .
 

  Peter
Raedschelders' page on Heesch tilings  

  Mark Thompson's page on Heesch tilings  

  Eric
Weisstein's page on Heesch tilings  
   From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational and recreational geometry.  David Eppstein ,  Theory Group ,  ICS ,  UC
Irvine . 

  Last update: 
.  
</body> 