 Pierre Baldi :: University of California, Irvine<body>
		   
		     Pierre Baldi   
			University of California in Irvine ( UCI ) 
			School of Information and Computer Sciences ( ICS ) 
			Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics ( IGB )  
			 
		       
						
			 
		   
			
			    Home      Publications      Books      Software      Group      Courses      Tutorials            Other     
			
			 
			
			    
			 
			 Software and Servers 

	   
	
	 


	 Physics  |  Chemoinformatics  |  Structural Proteomics  |  Functional Proteomics  |  Genomics    DataBases  |  Systems Biology  |  Software Search Engine  |  Virtual World 
	 
	
	   

	
	  Physics 
		  Machine Learning in Physics  
	    Chemoinformatics 
		  ChemDB :
			 Chemoinformatics portal including: 
			  A large database (5M) of organic compounds for molecular docking, drug screening, and retrosynthesis applications;  
				 Multiple Web server predictors of physical, chemical, and biological properties; 
				 An organic chemistry expert system (Reaction Explorer) used to power several applications, such as Synthesis Explorer and Mechanism Explorer. 
					Synthesis Explorer and Mechanism Explorer are interactive tutorial systems to learn undergraduate-level organic chemistry.
					Synthesis Explorer and Mechanism Explorer have been adopted and are currently used in all relevant undergraduate organic chemistry classes at UCI.
				 
			  
	    Structural Proteomics (SCRATCH suite)  
		  SSpro : Protein secondary structure prediction server (3 classes)  
		  SSpro8 : Protein secondary structure prediction server (8 classes)  
		  ACCpro : Solvent accessibility prediction server 
		  CONpro : Residue contact number prediction server 
		  DIpro : Disulphide bridge prediction server 
	      MUpro : Single amino acid mutation stability prediction server 
		   DISpro : Disordered region prediction server 
	       DOMpro : Domain prediction server 
	      BETApro : Prediction of beta-residue and beta-strand pairings. 
	      CMAPpro : Contact map prediction server 
	      FOLDpro : Prediction of protein tertiary structure (Fold Recognition). 
	      CCMAPpro : Coarse contact map prediction server 
	      CMAP23Dpro : 3D reconstruction from contact map 
	      3Dpro : 3D structure prediction server 
	      ICBS : Inter-chain beta sheet database of protein-protein interactions 	    
		  TMBpro : Prediction of transmembrane beta-barrel features and tertiary structure. 
		  SVMcon : Prediction of amino acid contact maps using Support Vector Machines. 
		  SELECTpro : Protein model selection using a structure-based energy function. 
		  SOLpro : Prediction of protein solubility. 
		  SIDEpro : Prediction of protein side-chain conformations. 
		  ANTIGENpro : Prediction of protein antigenicity. 
		  BEpro : B-cell epitope prediction server. 
		  COBEpro : B-cell continuous epitorpe prediction server. 
	    Functional Proteomics 
		  HMMpro : 
			 
				Hidden Markov Model simulator for biological sequence analysis, with graphical interface 
				Available upon request, please contact  pfbaldi [at] uci [dot] edu 
			 
		 
		  Link Finder : Processes mass spectrometry data and allows users to identify peptides linked by MS cleavable crosslinkers. 		
	    Genomics 
		  MotifMap : Genomewide maps of regulatory motifs  
		  Cyber-T : DNA microarray gene expression analysis server 
          LineUp : Comparative genomics server 
           CloseUp : Comparative genomics server 
          PPDB : Poxvirus Proteomics database         
          HMMpro :
			 
				Hidden Markov Model simulator for biological sequence analysis, with graphical interface 
				Available upon request, please contact  pfbaldi [at] uci [dot] edu 
        	 
         
          DSSB :
        	 
        		DNA Structure Sequence Browser 
        		Available upon request, please contact  pfbaldi [at] uci [dot] edu 
        	 
         
          GOnet :
        	 
        		Yeast database and visualization tool combining gene (SGD), gene ontology (GO), and gene interaction (GRID) information
        	 
         
          Sigmoid Database : Database for molecular interactions and pathways (Systems Biology) 
	    DataBases 
		  IGB Tools/DataBases  
	    Systems Biology 
		  IGB Tools/Systems Biology  
		  CircadiOmics :  
	    Software Search Engine 
		  Sourcerer : Database and Information Retrieval System for Source Code 
	    Virtual World 
		 
			 Universal Campus : The Universal Campus provides an infrastructure for organizing and deploying collaborative meetings, such as classes, research group meetings, and conferences in a virtual 3D world.			
		 
	    	
     Please see also the   IGB Tools page  
	 To license any of these tools, please contact  pfbaldi [at] uci [dot] edu . 
	 
			 
			   

		   
	 
	
		© 2017 Pierre Baldi |  pfbaldi [at] uci [dot] edu 

	 
	 
	   
	  </body> 