 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  March 4,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         Harris offers online certificate course in IoT devices, embedded systems</strong>
          
                     
Interested in Arduinos and microcontrollers? Associate Professor of Computer Science  Ian Harris  is offering a novel specialization in Internet of Things (IoT) devices, available to the general public through online course platform  Coursera .

  
Through a series of five online courses and one capstone project, students can earn a certificate specializing in embedded systems, the Raspberry Pi Platform, and the Arduino environment for building devices that can control the physical world. Courses include “Introduction to the Internet of Things and Embedded Systems,” which explores the explosive growth of IoT devices and the rising trend of home-built IoT innovations, as well as IoT device design considerations and networking components. Another course, “Interfacing with the Arduino,” explores the various ways to connect sensors to the Arduino, an open-source electronic prototyping platform used to create interactive electronics. After completing the required classes, students then apply their knowledge by designing, building and testing a “microcontroller-based embedded system, producing a unique final project suitable for showcasing to future employer,” according to the course description.

  
The specialization is designed for beginners, with no prior experience in embedded systems or IoT knowledge required. Courses are typically a month long, requiring only a few hours a week commitment depending on the intensiveness. Students are free to take the courses individually without completing the specialization, as well. The online courses are also relatively low-cost, with financial aid available to those who qualify. 

  
Harris notes that the benefits of taking the course: “You’ll be able to design and create a simple IoT device while exploring different IoT technologies and their applications. Using both the Arduino and Raspberry Pi hardware systems, you’ll develop basic code using both the Python and C programming languages. ... Best of all you’ll have fun using new technologies that will be an ever-increasing part of our future.”



                      Harris offers online certificate course in IoT devices, embedded systems    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Jessica Utts: An ambassador for statistics

              
                Next &gt; 
                 Lo, Ames named Center for Technology, Society and Policy Fellows
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 