 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Features  


     
  

 
 

 Research for the public good  December 4, 2015  
  
 Informatics Professor Crista Lopes’ research project evolves into a UC-wide library data-sharing portal, the DASH system. 
 



  
The Data Sharing Made Easy ( DASH ) system—the University of California’s (UC) newest solution to research data sharing and archiving—traces its roots back to data portal projects pioneered by Informatics Professor Crista Lopes.

  
DASH launched as a UC-wide system in 2014, with several school-specific iterations across the UC system, as a self-service curation system that enables users to describe, upload and share their research data. According to the  California Digital Library  (CDL), DASH allows users to perform tasks that include “preparing data for curation by reviewing best practice guidance for the creation or acquisition of digital research data, select data for curation through local file browse or drag-and-drop operation, describe data in terms of the DataCite metadata schema, identify data with a persistent digital object identifier (DOI) for permanent citation and discovery, preserve, manage, and share data by uploading to a public  Merritt repository  collection, and discover and retrieve data through faceted search and browse.”

  
While the system is a CDL project, it got its start with a prior National Science Foundation-funded project dubbed  CALSWIM , for which Lopes served as principal investigator. The four-year project, which ran from 2007-2011, aimed to enable data sharing among scientists and the general public. “Everyone with an account in the system could upload metadata about their datasets and even the datasets themselves, and then a search function would make those data discoverable to others via multiple interfaces,” Lopes explains.

  
CALSWIM then evolved into a more developed data portal dubbed EcoDataPortal, which Lopes built in collaboration with Sarah Kimball, project scientist at the  Center for Environmental Biology . “We then wanted to make the portal sustainable for the long run, beyond any research project, so we approached the Library to see if they wanted to take over and really expand on the idea of sharing data sets,” Lopes says.

  
The data sharing portal began as a project called DataShare, a collaboration between the University of California Curation Center, the UC San Francisco (UCSF) Library, and the UCSF Clinical and Translational Science Institute. In addition to revamping the dissemination of data for UC researchers across the system, the DASH system also serves the public through  DataONE DASH . Anyone, regardless of UC-affiliation, can search the system and deposit data with their Google credentials.

  
“I'm thrilled with DASH! It's a great example of research going into production for the public good,” Lopes says.









   
   — Story by Courtney Hamilton   



 UCI ICS Feature: Research for the public good 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 