 ICS 104 Course Reference * Winter 2004<body>
  
 
 W INTER  2004 --  Information and Computer Science 
--  UC Irvine   
 
 ICS 104 Course Reference
   H UMAN -C OMPUTER
 I NTERACTION   
  
  Instructor:    David G. Kay ,
406B Computer Science (   kay@uci.edu   )  
 
  Teaching assistant:  Tosin Aiyelokun
(   oaiyelok@uci.edu   )  
 
  Course goals:   The first 40 years of
computer science were concerned mainly with computers themselves--making
them faster, smaller, more reliable, and better understood mathematically.
 Perhaps that's still the main concern of the field as a whole, but
today computer scientists devote increasing attention to computers in their
real-world context, which usually involves the people who use them.  
 
 Computers may be complex systems, but human
beings are even more complex, and when we try to understand how computers
and people work together--well, there's a lot to learn.  This course
will introduce the broad field of human-computer interaction (HCI):  This
psychological underpinnings of cognition and perception; the variety of
interaction devices, media, and styles; and methods for designing systems
and evaluating their usability.  The success of most systems today, especially
consumer products, depends largely on HCI decisions.  
 
 This course is also the prerequisite for ICS
105, the project course in HCI.  
 
  Prerequisite courses and concepts: 
 The prerequisite for ICS 104 is one course in computing and upper division
standing. The course will not require any significant programming--that's
for ICS 105--but we do expect each student to be able to write clear, cogent,
grammatical English at an upper division level because much of the work
in this course will involve describing and justifying the design decisions
and evaluation judgements you make.  We also expect you to have these basic
computing skills:  Searching and browsing the Web, reading and sending Email,
downloading files, viewing and printing PDF (Adobe Acrobat) documents, and
creating or saving documents for Email and other purposes in plain ASCII
text form (not HTML or Word attachments).   
 
  Meeting place and times:   Lecture meets
Tuesdays and Thursdays from 11:00 to 12:20 in Humanities Instructional Building
110, with a scheduled discussion section on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays
from 8:00 to 8:50 in Computer Science 180.  
 
  Office hours:   The TA will have office
and consultation hours at times to be arranged; your primary opportunity
to work with him will be during the scheduled discussion section.  I will
be in or near my office during the following scheduled hours, during which
course-related matters will have first priority:  Tuesdays from 2:15 to
3:00 and Thursdays from 10:00 to 10:45.  Of course emergencies may come
up, but I will try to give advance notice of any change.  If I'm not
immersed in something else, I'll be glad to answer short questions whenever
I'm in my office, so feel free to drop by any time.  I'll also be
happy to make appointments for other times during the week.  The quickest
and most effective way to reach me is by electronic mail, as described below.  
 
  Questions and announcements:   You can
usually get a response to your course-related questions within a few hours
(perhaps a bit longer on the weekends) by sending electronic mail to the
address    ics104@uci.edu   .
 This goes to both the TA and the instructor, so whoever reads it first
can respond.  If you need to reach one of us individually, our individual
addresses appear above.  
 
 We may also send course announcements by Email
to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email regularly.
 Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
has for you (your UCInet ID).  If you prefer to read your Email on another
account, you should set your UCInet account to forward your Email to your
preferred account (you can do this on the web at   
 http://phwww.cwis.uci.edu/cgi-bin/phupdate   ).
 Don't let this slide; if you miss official announcements, your grade
could suffer.  If you are not yet enrolled in the course, you should check
the course Email periodically at the archive address given below; that's
how you'll know if you've been given permission to add.  
 
 This course has a home page at    http://e3.uci.edu/04w/36315   
(which you can reach more mnemonically from    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay   ,
the instructor's home page);    http://e3.uci.edu/04w/w3m3/36315 
  holds an archive of official course
Email; and a course Note Board for student-to-student discussions is available
when you log on to   eee.uci.edu  
.  We don't use a news group for this course.  
 
  Textbook and course materials:   
  Interaction Design:  Beyond Human-Computer Interaction,  by Jennifer
Preece, Yvonne Rogers, and Helen Sharp.   
 
  The Cognitive Style of PowerPoint,  by
Edward R. Tufte. This short monograph takes a critical look at the use of
PowerPoint, a pervasive means of presenting information.  
 
  Visual &amp; Statistical Thinking: Displays
of Evidence for Decision Making,  by Edward R. Tufte.  This reprint of
Chapter 2 of Tufte's book,  Visual Explanations,  describes two
situations where the way information was presented had life-or-death consequences.  
 
  Course structure:
    Assignments  
(40% of the course grade, with later assignments generally weighted more
heavily than earlier ones)
  Class participation  (15%)
  One midterm,  given in class on Thursday, February 12 (15%)
  One final exam,  on Tuesday, March 23, from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
(30%)  
 
 We will guarantee that overall scores over
90% will receive an A- or better, scores over 80% a B- or better, and scores
over 70% a C or better, but the actual grade cutoffs may be lower.  
 
 We're required to say that in unusual
circumstances, these criteria could change, but we do not expect that to
happen.  
 
  Add and drop policy:  More students
wish to add this class than we have the capacity to accommodate.  Those
wishing to add must fill out an enrollment request at the first class meeting;
Following departmental and university guidelines, we will establish priorities
for filling any seats that become available.    
 
 The absolute deadline for dropping the course
is the end of class on Thursday, January 22.  Because students who are enrolled
occupy a seat that other students want, ICS does not allow students to drop
after it's too late for another student to fill that seat.  We will
observe strictly the ICS policy of prohibiting drops after the second week
of the course.      
 
  What you must do right now to get started
in ICS 104:
  -- If you do not have a UCInet ID (an account on the EA system for Email),
get one.  See    http://www.oac.uci.edu/computing/activate.html   .
 
-- If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
UCInet account, redirect your mail at    http://phwww.cwis.uci.edu/cgi-bin/phupdate 
   -- Give a snapshot of yourself (with
your name written on the back) to your TA.  This will help us learn your
names quickly.  (This is not just for fun--it's a course requirement.)
 Also turn in your signed Questionnaire to your TA in discussion section.
 
-- If you aren't yet officially enrolled in the course, check the course
Email archive regularly (see above) so you can keep up with official announcements
(which may include announcements about enrollment).  
 
  Good advice and helpful hints:   
 
 Check your electronic mail regularly; this
is an official channel for course announcements.  
 
 Attendance in class is essential; concepts
and issues that come up in class will find their way onto the exams and
class participation in various forms counts towards the  course grade.  
 
 Always keep your own copy of each assignment,
both electronically and on paper; if an assignment should get lost in the
shuffle (or if a file server in the lab should crash, which has happened
in the past), we'll expect you to be able to supply a replacement easily.  
 
 If you find yourself having trouble or getting
behind, speak with a TA or the instructor.  But  never  take the shortcut
of copying someone else's work and turning it in; the consequences can
be far worse than just a low score on one assignment.  The ICS department
takes academic honesty very seriously; for a more complete discussion, see
the ICS departmental web page covering academic honesty issues:  
 http://www.ics.uci.edu/~ucounsel/continuing_students/cheat.html   .  
   
  Approximate course outline:  
        
  Week   
 
  Date   
 
  Topic   
 
  Readings*    
         
  1.    
 
 13 January   
 
 Introduction to the course and HCI   
 
 1  
   
    
 
 15 January   
 
 Conceptual models and metaphors   
 
 2  
   
  2.    
 
 20 January   
 
 Cognitive foundations   
 
 3  
   
    
 
 22 January   
 
 Interaction devices   
 
  
   
  3.    
 
 27 January   
 
 Collaboration and communication
 How interactions affect users   
 
 4
 5  
   
    
 
  29 January   
 
 Interaction styles   
 
 2  
   
  4.    
 
 3 February   
 
 The design process   
 
 6  
   
    
 
 5 February   
 
 Menu interfaces   
 
  
   
  5.    
 
 10 February   
 
 Navigation   
 
  
   
    
 
 12 February   
 
  Midterm    
 
  
   
  6.    
 
 17 February   
 
 Needs and requirements
 Design and prototyping   
 
 7
 8, 9  
   
    
 
 19 February   
 
 Forms   
 
  
   
  7.    
 
 24 February   
 
 Direct manipulation   
 
  
   
    
 
 26 February   
 
 Screen elements and layout   
 
  
   
  8.    
 
 2 March   
 
 Hypermedia systems   
 
  
   
    
 
 4 March   
 
 Users with disabilities   
 
  
   
  9.    
 
 9 March   
 
 Evaluation   
 
 10, 11  
   
    
 
 11 March   
 
 More on evaluation   
 
 12, 13, 14  
   
  10.    
 
 16 March   
 
 Case studies   
 
 15  
   
    
 
 18 March   
 
 Epilogue and review   
 
  
   
    
 
 23 March   
 
  Final exam,  Tuesday, 10:30-12:00   
 
  
    * Chapters shown are in the Preece/Rogers/Sharp text.
 We'll let you know when the Tufte and other required readings are timely. 
 
  Acknowledgements:   Alfred Kobsa and
Nayla Nassif generously contributed materials to this course.  In particular,
Prof. Kobsa's slides are available on line at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kobsa/courses/ICS104/_notes/start.htm   .
Please send any comments or questions to    ics104@uci.edu   
rather than to Prof. Kobsa directly.  
 </body> 