 Executive Summary of San Mateo Distributed Authoring Meeting<body>
 
    Distributed Authoring on the World Wide
Web Informal Working Group Meeting     

 
 Executive Summary 
 

 
On July, 10, 1996, an informal meeting of the Working Group on
Distributed Authoring on the World Wide Web (WWW) was held at
the offices of America Online (AOL) Productions in San Mateo,
California. There were 14 meeting participants, including members
of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) HyperText Transfer
Protocol (HTTP) Working Group, the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C),
the document management community, software configuration management
companies, distributed web authoring tool vendors and researchers,
and the academic hypertext versioning community.  The main objective
of this meeting was to provide a forum where people interested
in fostering interoperability between distributed web authoring
applications could meet, exchange information about the current
state of the art and practice, identify key interoperability issues,
and formulate an agenda for achieving interoperability.
 

 
The meeting began with a presentation by Jim Whitehead, U.C. Irvine
on the history of distributed authoring on the WWW, on the purpose
of the distributed authoring working group, and on the purpose
of the Working Group on Versioning and Configuration Management
of World Wide Web Content.  Ron Fein, Microsoft, next gave a presentation
on collaborative authoring and WWW features in Microsoft Word.
 A presentation by Henrik Frystyk Nielsen, W3C, on distributed
authoring and his vision of a unified PUT model, finished the
morning session. The afternoon began with a presentation by Dave
Long, America Online, on AOLpress and AOLserver, which was followed
by a presentation by Andy Schulert, Microsoft, on FrontPage. 
Whitehead next led discussion on the goal of the working group,
the sponsorship of the working group, and criteria for completion.
 At the end of the day, the group discussed what they considered
to be key interoperability issues, and developed a list of activities
and deliverables to be produced by the working group.
 

 
 Key Results 
 

  The working group adopted as its goal: Enable distributed
web authoring tools to be broadly interoperable.

  Create a task-oriented list of scenarios which interoperable
distributed authoring tools should be able to perform.  Keith
Dawson, Atria, is the editor of this document.

  Create a list which collates the "key functionality"
among AOLpress/AOLserver, FrontPage, Word, as well as other distributed
authoring tools.  Dave Long, America Online, is the editor of
this document.

   
The working group also identified some areas for future work:
 

  Criteria for completion of the group's work were discussed,
and need to be clearly described in writing.

  The working group was tentatively interested in seeking sponsorship
by the W3C. However, before the group is officially sponsored,
members needs to know the intellectual property rights implications
of such sponsorship.

  There should be a reinvestigation of work previously performed
by Murray Maloney on standard LINK REL and REV tags.

  There should be an investigation by the versioning and configuration
management group into the utility of entity tags (etags) for performing
versioning.

   

Detailed meeting notes, a list of participants, a final agenda
for the meeting, and slides from the meeting are available at
URL:    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~ejw/authoring/sanmateo/    

Finally, the working group would like to thank Dave Long of America
Online for arranging the conference room at AOL Productions, and
for his in-meeting support.  Also deserving thanks are Ron Fein of
Microsoft, Henrik Frystyk Nielsen of W3C, Dave Long of America Online, and
Andy Schulert of Microsoft, for their insightful presentations, and
Dennis Hamilton of Xerox PARC, and Keith Dawson of Atria Software, for
their excellent notes, and to all participants for their thoughtful
discussion.
 

  
 
University of California, Irvine   
Jim Whitehead &lt;ejw@ics.uci.edu&gt;   
Department of Information and Computer Science  
247 ICS2 #3425  
Irvine , CA  92697-3425  
 
Last modified: 13 Sep 1996
 
</body> 