 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Features  


     
  

 
 

 Building the ‘perfect’ app  December 16, 2015  
  
 UCI Emergency Services Manager Anne Widney collaborates with Hadar Ziv’s capstone project class to expand the successful, cost-effective ZOTFinder app to Android users. 
 



  
ZOTFinder was a unique project from the start: When Emergency Services Manager Anne Widney presented the idea to Hadar Ziv’s Senior Capstone Informatics project class, two student groups volunteered to design the UC Irvine-centric app. Equipped with Google Maps technology that pinpoints the location of everything on campus, as well as access to streamlined emergency procedures and UC Irvine safety escort dialers, the app also featured the input of several departments across campus. What’s proven most unique about the app, however, is its resounding success on  iTunes .

  
“It’s a perfect example of an app. The app collects 17 different sources of data that would otherwise be distributed and hard to find, instead of at your fingertips—especially when there is a sense of urgency,” Ziv says. iPhone users agree: The app has been downloaded thousands of times off the Apple marketplace. The  Android version  is in the works, with volunteers from Ziv’s current Capstone class pitching in to finish it.

  
The team behind the iOS app included Rudy Mancilla, Aileen Lee and Janina Paragele, while Horiya Ameen, Sheena Perea, Derick Tran and Michael Kunisaki put forth the first iteration of the Android app. All of the students have since graduated. The then-student developers were invited to present at the  2014 Ingenuity Technology Showcase , an annual demonstration of the top student innovations from both the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences and The Henry Samueli School of Engineering.

  
Widney lauds the app for addressing a campus need while maintaining its student roots. “What we’re really proud of is that this was designed by our students,” she says. Around the time Widney presented the idea before Ziv’s class, campus police had been considering off-the-shelf applications—non-customizable apps for sale on the commercial marketplace. Off-the-shelf apps typically sell for $10,000 to $25,000 a year, making ZOTFinder a far more cost-effective campus option.

  
The application’s appeal is ubiquitous across the UC Irvine community. “Even people who have worked on campus for 20 years don’t know where every building is,” Widney says. “Whether you’re new to UC Irvine or you’ve worked on campus for 20 years, there’s useful functionality.” The app’s mapping feature proves a great help in everyday community use, as well as for people who visit the campus for events or tours. In emergencies, like an earthquake or fire, critical information is presented in accessible, streamlined snapshots.

  
ZOTFinder’s success is largely due to its team following through on the project. “Student projects don’t always get to this point,” says Ziv. “They may have gotten to the point of a prototype, but not something that is actually deployed like ZotFinder.”






  UCI ICS Feature: Building the ‘perfect’ app 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 