 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  February 2,  2017
</strong>
 
      
      
         Global Game Jam connects UCI with OC's game design community</strong>
              Professor Tanenbaum brought together 130 people who collectively created 20 wave-themed games in 48 hours.    
                      
 This year’s Global Game Jam ( GGJ ) was a huge success for UC Irvine and GGJ site organizer  Joshua Tanenbaum</strong>, assistant professor of informatics at UCI. For 48 hours of game development mayhem from Jan. 20-22, 130 people joined the fun, compared to the roughly 50 participants GGJ had last year. This was the third year Tanenbaum has hosted the event at UC Irvine.    
Global Game Jam is an annual event celebrated locally in more than 90 countries. It is known for its radical inclusiveness, encouraging game enthusiasts of all genders, ages, socioeconomic status and industry to gather together, form teams and create an original game over the weekend. UCI teams accomplished the amazing feat of producing  20 games  this year during GGJ. 
 “There is something truly unique and powerful about knowing that thousands of other creative people around the world are also working on games together with you,” said Tanenbaum. “It’s really fun to be even a small part of such a large experience.” 
 A diverse range of people showed up to this year’s jam, ranging from a troop of Girl Scouts to professional programmers and artists from the game development industry. 
 “Having a jam site in Irvine has been great for our students, and also for building relationships with the broader game design community in Orange County,” said Tanenbaum. “There are over 60 game studios in the area, and many of our professional participants come to be inspired by the creative environment and to work on the kinds of projects they might not get to make in their day jobs.” 
 Each year an original theme is revealed for jammers to use when developing their games. This year’s theme was simply “waves.” 
 Annakaisa Kultima, a GGJ regional organizer from Finland and a member of the committee that considered dozens of candidates before deciding on this year’s theme, spoke about its diverse possibilities for game creators: “We were trying to find a theme that would be inspiring on many levels of game creation. This theme can be used on all levels of game development: code, audio, graphics, gameplay as well as a thematic aspect of a game.” 
 Global Game Jam was originally a project developed under the International Game Developers Association between 2009-2012. In 2013, the event became independently managed by international nonprofit Global Game Jam Inc., which has “a mission to foster game design and game education through innovative events.” 
 More than 36,000 jammers in 702 sites across 95 countries created over 7,000 games this year, making this year’s GGJ the biggest game jam in history. Tanenbaum said he was proud to make UCI a part of this global event. He added, “I’m very happy with how things went this year!” 
  Photos and video from the event can be found online  here   .  

 





					
                      Global Game Jam connects UCI with OC's game design community    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Data Scientist ranked top U.S. job by Glassdoor

              
                Next &gt; 
                 van der Hoek's new  Software Design Decoded  book provides practical advice for software designers

             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 