 Using VHDL to Design a Sequential Circuit 

 

  Lab 2    

  Sequential Circuit
Design    

               



     Due               dates:    see Labs table           



       

     

 The objective of this lab assignment is to design a sequential circuit. You
will submit your specification and your VHDL code through EEE, as in Lab
1.  

     

 Please read  ALL 
instructions carefully.  Only   properly submitted 
assignments will be graded. 

     

    Specification        

  Your task is to design a 3-bit counter
that counts by 5 (increments by 5). The initial value is 0, the next value is 5
after the clock, etc. The output value on clock I  is 
(5*I) modulo 8.     

 The design should consist of 2 parts, a combinational circuit that
"computes" the next counter value based on the current value (e.g.
function F) and a D flip-flop based 4-bit register storing the count. 

 First, specify the counter logic with a truth table, e.g. Next =  F( Current) as in Next and Current state. Write down sum of
products expression for F. Feel free to simplify the expression.  

 Second, draw a diagram connecting F to the register, the reset and clock signals.
 

     

   Design   

 Download   lab2.zip   and unpack it.  

 The by-5 counter module (that is, the lab2 entity) has two 1-bit inputs ( clk  and  reset_N ) and one 3-bit
output (count). The rising edge of the clock signal increments the counter to
the next value. The reset signal    reset_N    sets the output of the
counter to 0  asynchronously ,
which means counter value changes to 0 immediately after reset signal arrives,
regardless of the clock. Remember,  reset_N  is a
low-active signal. 

  Your VHDL design should consist of
combinational logic implemented using concurrent signal assignments in the
architecture body and a register update process.     

 The top level of your design should be called  lab2  and needs to have the following
ports (in  the
same order  as given here, with  the same names ):    

  Inputs :  clk :  std_logic   reset_N :  std_logic    

  Outputs : 
count:  std_logic_vector  (2  downto 
0)  

 Name and order of the ports in your design is important.  To receive full
credit please follow the order and assign names as above.    

     

    Verification   Due together with the design.      

 Your test bench should generate a clock signal. The clock cycle period
should be 10 ns.  

 First, verify the counting functionality by applying at least 10 clock
signals to the counter. You should try to start counting from different values.
Take 2 screen shots for 2 different initial values. 

 Second, verify the reset signal can reset the counter to zero
asynchronously. Also verify that the counter would start counting again after
the reset signal is removed. The reset signal may not necessarily change at the
same time as the clock. Take a screen shot of the waveform. 


  

   


         

         

   What you should produce in this lab:   
    

       

  Please submit the specification,
including the  truth-table , the logic expressions
and a block diagram.    

 Please submit t he
VHDL design and test-bench and 3 screen shots.     

 

</body> 