 Various Quotations<body>

 
There are two ways of constructing a software design. One way is to
make it so simple that there are obviously no deficiencies. And the
other way is to make it so complicated that there are no obvious
deficiences.
 -- Tony Hoare 
 


 
If you want to build a ship, don't drum up people together to collect
wood and don't assign them tasks and work, but rather teach them to
long for the endless immensity of the sea.
 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupery 
 


 
Yet still, there are those special secret moments in our lives, when
we smile unexpectedly--when all our forces are resolved. A woman can
often see these moments in us, better than a man, better than we
ourselves, even. When we know these moments, when we smile, when we
are not on guard at all--these are the moments when our most important
forces show themselves; whatever it is you are doing at such a moment,
hold on to it, repeat it--for that certain smile is the best knowledge
that we ever have of what our hidden forces are, and where they lie,
and how they can be loosed.
 -- Christopher Alexander (The Timeless Way of Building) 
 


 
HELP! How many more nights and weird mornings can this terrible shit
go on? How long can the body and the brain tolerate this doom-struck
craziness? This grinding of teeth, this pouring of sweat, this
pounding of blood in the temples... small blue veins gone amok in
front of the ears, sixty and seventy hours with no sleep...
 -- Hunter S Thompson (Better than Sex) 
 


 
As for the Sun mouse, I'm not a big multi-button mouse fan, because I
just can't remember which button to push when. I rather like the
Macintosh system of using four modifier keys with the mouse.
 -- Bruce Tognazzini (interview in SIGCHI Bulletin, Aug 95) 
 


 
For ethnomethodology the objective reality of social facts, in that,
and just how, it is every society's locally, endogenously produced,
naturally organised, reflexively accountable, ongoing, practical
achievement, being everywhere, always, only, exactly and entirely,
members' work, with no time out, and with no possibility of evasion,
hiding out, passing, postponement, or buy-outs, is thereby sociology's
fundamental phenomenon.
 -- Harold Garfinkel (Ethnomethodology and the Human Sciences) 
 


 
The procedure of deciding, before the actual occasion of choice, the
conditions under which one among a set of possible alternative courses
of action will be elected, is one definition of a rational
strategy. It is worth noting that this rational property of the
decision-making process in managing everyday affairs is conspicuous by
its absence.
 -- Harold Garfinkel (Studies in Ethnomethodology, ch4). 
 


 
'Cognition' observed in everyday practice is distributed -- stretched
over, not divided among -- mind, body, activity and culturally
organised settings (which include other actors).
 -- Jean Lave (Cognition in Practice) 
 


 

In this queer world as everyone knows.  
Some have beautiful mansions  
And are wearing beautiful clothes.  
There are blue-blooded queens and princesses  
Who have charms made of diamonds and pearls.  
But the only thoroughbred lady  
Is the Rebel Girl. 
  -- Joe Hill 
 


 
Those who complain that sociologists are inclined to re-iterate themes
unnecessarily are missing the point. Recursive rhetoricism is
constitutive of sociology. The very stuff of the discipline is the
work of repetition. To make the point absolutely clear, without the
rehearsal of argumentation there could be no sociology. Indeed, and to
put it another way, sociology is not in the loop, sociology is the
loop. Theorists of Hypertext media have observed that Cut and Paste
facilities derive their very meaning from the activities of
sociology. In short, we do go on. We make no apology for this.
 -- Dave Randall 
 


 
The highest reward for a person's toil is not what they get for it
but what they become by it.
 -- John Ruskin 
 


 
I know of no academic discipline which has suffered more at the hands
of its expositors than ethnomethodology.
 -- Eric Livingston ("Making Sense of Ethnomethodlogy") 
 


 
The observer himself should play an active role in perceiving the
world and should have a creative part in developing his image. he
should have the power to change that image to fit changing needs. An
environment which is ordered in precise and final detail may inhibit
new patterns of activity. A landscape whose every rock tells a story
may make difficult the creation of new stories.
 -- Kevin Lynch (The Image of the City) 
 


 
When the people are being beaten with a stick, they are not much
happier if it is called "The People's Stick".
 -- Mikhail Bakunin (Statism and Anarchy) 
 


 

And what strength I have's mine own 
Which is most faint: now t'is true 
I must here be released by you
  
But release me from my bands 
With the help of your good hands 
Gentle breath of yours my sails 
Must fill, or else my project fails,   
Which was to please. Now I want 
Spirits to enforce, art to enchant 
And my ending is despair, 
Unless I be relieved by prayer
  
Which pierces so that it assaults 
Mercy itself and frees all faults 
As from your crimes would pardon'd be 
Let your indulgence set me free
      -- Shakespeare (Prospero's closing speech from the--
	   -- Tempest) 
 


 
Men make history, but not in circumstances of their own choosing.
 -- Karl Marx 
 


 
I had never tasted anything so cool and clean. They made me feel
civilized.
  -- Frederick Henry, on the Martini, in Hemmingway's "Farewell to
Arms" 
 


 
Every normal man must be tempted at times to spit on his hands,
hoist the black flag, and begin cutting throats.
  -- H.L. Mencken 
 


 
The relevance of the works of the Chicago sociologists is that they do
contain a lot of information about this and that. And this and that is
what the world is made up of.
 -- Harvey Sacks 
 


 
Originality is going back to origins.
 -- Antoni Gaudi 
 


 
Technology at present is covert philosophy; the point is to make it
overtly philosophical.
 -- Phil Agre 
 


 
Disneyland is presented as imaginary in order to make us believe that
the rest is real.
 -- Jean Baudrillard 
 


 
Reading maketh a full man; conference a ready man; and writing an
exact man.
 -- Francis Bacon 
 


 
Philosophy is a battle against the bewitchment of our intelligence by
means of language.
 -- Ludwig Wittgenstein 
 


 
Few scientists would treat their cars as badly as they
treat their conceptual schemes.
 -- Mary Midgley 
 


 
You seem to have an endless supply of criticism.
 -- Melinda (to me) 
 


 
You're pretty strong for a theory guy.
 --  Anthony LaMarca ,
to  Marshall
Bern  
 


 
When I was younger, I made it a rule never to take  strong drink
before lunch. It is now my rule never to do so before breakfast.
 -- Winston Churchill 
 


 
It is inhumane, in my opinion, to force people who have a genuine
medical need for coffee to wait in line behind people who
apparently view it as some kind of recreational activity. I bet this
kind of thing does not happen to heroin addicts. I bet that when
serious heroin addicts go to purchase their heroin, they do not
tolerate waiting in line while some dilettante in front of them
orders a hazelnut smack-a-cino with cinnamon sprinkles.
 -- Dave Barry 
 


 
Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful,
committed citizens can change the world; indeed, it is
the only thing that ever has.
 -- Margaret Mead 
 


 
The Macintosh uses an experimental pointing device called a
'mouse.' There is no evidence that people want to use these things.
 -- John Dvorak 
 


 
Q: So, has success changed you?
 
A: Yeah, it's changed me. You know how when you're eating pistachios and you
find one that's hard to get the shell open? Well, I don't bother
with them anymore.
 -- Bob Weir 
 


 
Oh, yes, I've learned from my mistakes and I'm sure I could repeat
them exactly.
 -- Sir Arthur Strebe-Greebling (aka Peter Cook) 
 


 
When it comes to being slaves to fashion, American managers
make adolescent girls look like rugged individualists.
 -- Geoff Nunberg 
 


 
"Politics" is made up of two words, "Poli", which is Greek
for "many", and "tics", which are blood sucking insects.
 -- Gore Vidal 
 


 
When I was a young student in London I thought I should get a few tips
from experienced fieldworkers before setting out for central Africa. I
first sought advice from Westermarck. All I got from him was "don't
converse with an informant for more than twenty minutes because if you
aren't bored by that time he will be."  Very good advice even 
if somewhat
inadequate. I sought instruction from Haddon, a man foremost in field
research. He told me it was really quite simple; one should always
behave like a gentleman. Also very good advice. My teacher Seligman
told me to take ten grains of quinine every night and to keep off the
women. The famous Egyptologist, Sir Flinders Petrie, just told me not
to bother about drinking dirty water as one soon became immune to
it. Finally I asked Malinowski and was told not to be a bloody fool.
 -- E.E. Evans-Pritchard, describing how he learned to conduct
field research. 
 


 
If, as it is said to be not unlikely in the near future, the principle
of sight is applied to the telephone as well as that of sound, Earth
will be in truth a paradise, and distance will lose its enchantment by
being abolished altogether.
 -- Arthur Mee (Strand Magazine, 1898). 
 


 
I do not recommend any legislative action against hermeneutics. I am
a liberal person opposed to all unnecessary state limitation of
individual liberties. Hermeneutics between consenting adults should
not in my view be the object of any statutory restrictions. I know,
only too well, what it would entail. Hermeneutic speakeasies would
spring up all over the place, smuggled Thick Descriptions would be
brought in by the lorry-load from Canada by the Mafia, blood and thick
meaning would clot in the gutter as rival gangs of semiotic
bootleggers slugged it out in a series of bloody shoot-outs and
ambushes. Addicts would be subject to blackmail. Consumptions of deep
meanings and its attendant psychic consequences would in no way
diminsh, but the criminal world would benefit, and the whole fabric of
civil society would be put under severe strain. Never!
  &amp;nbsp--Ernest Gellner, Anthropology and Politics,1995:20. 
 


 
Academic environments are generally characterised by the presence of
peole who claim to understand more than in fact they do. Linguistic
Philosophy has produced a great revolution, generating people who
claim not to understand when in fact they do. Some achieve great
virtuosity at it. Any beginner in philosophy can manage not to
understand, say, Hegel, but I have heard people who were so advanced
that they knew how not to understand writers of such limpid clarity
as Bertrand Russell or A.J. Ayer.
 -- Ernest Gellner, Words and Things, 83-84. Routledge, 1979. 
 


 
So [ethnomethodology] would be the manner in which the subjective,
'Californian' mood enters the otherwise sober, scientistic,
sociological segments of the groves of academe. If this social
location of the movement is correct, it is dramatically symbolised by
various external characteristics of the movement--for instance, its
disctinctive lecturing style, which certainly owes more to Elvis
Presley than it does to Talcott Parsons--the tendency to twist and
writhe, to make love to the microphone, to convey by every gesture
that spontaneity, subjectivity and self-generated continuity and
flow are everything, as opposed to formal structure and extraneous
rules. Or again, when I had the unforgettable pleasure of attending
a Conference on Ethnomethodology in Edinburgh, it was noticeable,
and I think significant that the quality and quantity of
ethno-chicks surpassed by far those of chicks of any other movement
which I have ever observed--even Far Out Left Chicks, not to mention
ordinary anthropo-chicks, socio-chicks or (dreadful thought)
philosophy chicks. All this must indicate that there is a great
continuity between the culture of this movement and that of the
rising youth culture, which supplies it with these perks. The
movement has magic, and it has it for the young."
 -- Ernest Gellner, "Ethnomethodology: The Re-Enchantment
Industry or The Californian Way of Subjectivity".
Phil. Soc. Sci. 5(1975) pp. 431--450. 
 



 
God has arrived. I met him on the 5:15 train.
 -- John Maynard Keynes,
reporting Wittgenstein's return to Cambridge in 1929. 
 


 
The objective of hypertext research is to save the planet.
 -- Ted Nelson. 
 

 
Economics is about how people make choices; sociology is about how
they have no choices to make.
 -- David Hackett Fisher 
 

 
The essential task of public relations in all its operations is to
invent better ways and especially to devise better explanations and
accounts for what has to be done; in short, its role is to transform
expediency into altruism or even statesmanship.
 -- Robert Jackall, "Moral Mazes: The World of Corporate Managers",
p. 173 
 

 
Luckily, I remembered something Malcolm Cowley had taught us at
Stanford -- perhaps the most important lesson a writing class (not a
writer, understand, but a class) can ever learn. 'Be gentle with
one another's efforts,' he often admonished us. 'Be kind and
considerate with your criticism. Always remember that it's just as
hard to write a bad book as it is to write a good book.
 -- Ken Kesey, "Remember This: Write what you don't know", NYTBR,
31 Dec 1989 
 

 
For thirty years most interface design, and most comptuer design, has
been headed down the path of the "dramatic" machine. Its highest idea
is to make a computer so exciting, so wonderful, so interesting, that
we never want to be without it. A less-traveled path I call the
"invisible"; its highest idea is to make a computer so imbedded, so
fitting, so natural, that we use it without even thinking about it.
 -- Mark Weiser , "The Computer for the 21st Century."
 

 
I don't know anything about music. In my line, you don't have to.
 -- Elvis Presley 
 

 
The secret to creativity is knowing how to hide your sources.
 -- Albert Einstein 
 

 
Education is not the filling of a pail, but the lighting of a fire.
 -- W.B. Yeats 
 

 
One of the diseases of this age is the multiplicity of books; they
doth so overcharge the world that it is not able to digest the
abundance of idle matter that is every day hatched and brought forth
into the world.
 -- Barnaby Rich (1580-1617), writing in 1613 (quoted in
de Solla Price,
1963:63) 
 

 
The sanserif only seems to be the simpler script.  It is a form
that was violently reduced for little children.  For adults it
is more difficult to read than serifed roman type, whose serifs
were never meant to be ornamental.
 -- Jan Tschichold, "On Typography" 
 





 
No one who spells their name "Jakob Nielsen" can be a "usability"
expert.
 --  Ken Anderson  
 

 
More people are killed every year by pigs than by sharks, which shows
you how good we are at evaluating risk.
 -- Bruce Schneier 
 

 
If man had not been his own classifier, he would never have thought of
founding a separate order for his own reception.
 -- Charles Darwin 

  
It is remarkable how Darwin rediscovers, among the beasts and plants,
the society of England with its division of labour, competition,
opening up of new markets, 'inventions' and Malthusian 'struggle for
existance.' It is Hobbes' bellum omnium contra omnes and is
reminiscent of Hegel's Phenomenology, in which civil society figures as
an 'intellectual animal kingdom,' whereas, in Darwin, the animal
kingdom figures as civil society.
 -- Karl Marx 

  
The playful nip denotes the bite, but it does not denote what would be
denoted by the bite.
 -- Gregory Bateson 

  
There's no better way to feel like a moron
that to read anything by Dourish.
 -- anonymous student 
 







</body> 