 News – Page 11 – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         

                 
                     

                         
                    
                                   Home    News                                      
                                  Category Archives 
                         

                         
                             
                                 102 Articles                              
                         

                     
                 

             
    
     
         
             

                

 
        
             WICS Goes to Grace Hopper! 

             

             

            
               News    by admin 

            
                        on 10/07/2012 

    
     

             
 Last Saturday four of our members had the privilege to attend the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing in Baltimore, Maryland.  The trip was incredibly inspiring for all of us and we agreed that we will raise funds to send UCI students to Grace Hopper every year. 
 We met many representatives from great companies like Facebook, LinkedIn, DropBox, Qualcomm, and many others who were enthusiastic about going to UCI to meet our WICS members!  We also attended several workshops for professional development, technical issues in the industry, as well as how to be an effective organization for women in ICS. 
 On a lighter note, we attended two dances, ate the ridiculous amounts of desserts served at the conference, and picked up tons of free goodies.  Check out our Flickr photostream for pictures of our experience at Grace Hopper. 
 At our next meeting on Tuesday, October 9th we will be giving away a bunch of company swag and we will raffle off a Google shirt! 
   
   
                 
                                     
                         6</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             Hello world! 

             

             

            
               News    by admin 

            
                        on 06/01/2012  0 Comments           

    
     

         This is the new home for the Women in Information and Computer Science website! 
                 
                                     
                         6</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
             
                 
                          Prev  
	  1  
	  …  
	  9  
	  10  
	  11  
  
             
         
 
         
     

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 
</body> 