 Introduction to the Irvine Research Unit in Software (IRUS)<body>
 
  

IRUS, the Irvine Research Unit in Software, is an alliance of applied
research and technology partnerships between academia and industry.   
Its focus is on advancing the state-of-the-art and state-of-the practice 
in software production. IRUS was established in recognition of the software 
industry's critical importance to California and the nation. IRUS strives 
to enhance abilities to design, produce, assess, and maintain diverse types 
of software through cooperative problem-solving and
sharing of information and experience. 
 
Research and technical emphases of IRUS include:
    Software Processes, Workflow, and Process Improvement
   Computer-Supported Cooperative Work 
   Human Computer Interaction 
   Software Architectures and Design
   Analysis and Testing 
   Extensible Systems
   Hyperware and World Wide Web Protocols, Tools, and Standards
   Distributed Object Technologies
   Software Understanding
  

IRUS was chartered by the Chancellor of the 
 
University of California, Irvine 
 in 1990 to help the software industry meet its never-ending 
technical challenges. IRUS serves as a focal point for interactions within 
the Southern California software industry. It fosters a sense of community and
promotes synergy between university faculty and software industry nationwide.
IRUS activities provide a natural vehicle for communication and 
experience sharing, leading to joint community initiatives as well as
focused research and development partnerships. IRUS provides organizational 
infrastructure for the software community to:

   Advance the state of software development practices, enabling companies
     to succeed in the global marketplace
   Improve regional competitiveness through software workforce skill
     enhancement
   Expedite technology transition of research products into industrial
     practice and accelerate the rate of absorption by software practitioners 
     of the best new software technologies
   Guide university research and state-of-the-art technology development
   Share and disseminate the best ideas among regional industry leaders
     through active networking and interaction on key contemporary software 
     issues
   Quantitatively improve the state of the software engineering practice in
     terms of productivity and overall software quality and dependability
   

The foundation of IRUS is the 
 
software  
faculty from the 
 
Information and Computer Science department 
at the 
 
University of California, Irvine. 
The software faculty and research
program are ranked as one of the best in 
the world. The software faculty is complemented by several faculty
members from the 
 
computing, organizations, policy, and society (CORPS)  group. This core 
faculty has an established track record for working together 
and for obtaining and administering large-scale joint funding. The
faculty has also established software-related 
research projects in cooperation with local industry. It maintains
connections to software research groups else
where in the University of California system, across the country, and
around the world.

  

 Back to the IRUS home page 

   
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science   
University of California, Irvine  
Irvine, CA 92697-3425
 
</body> 