 Tangencies: Many Circles<body>
 
 
   
 
   Tangencies : Many Circles 
 

 The  Koebe embedding theorem  states that any planar graph can be 
realized by a collection of disjoint circles, meaning that each circle 
corresponds to a vertex of the graph and two circles are tangent if and 
only if they are connected by an edge.  If all faces of the graph are 
triangles, the realizations are unique up to
 inversion : one can get from 
any realization to any other by a sequence of inversions.  This uniqueness 
property is closely related to Mostov rigidity of hyperbolic manifolds.

  The circles below represent the skeleton of an octahedron, a planar 
graph with six vertices and twelve edges.  Therefore there are six (blue) 
circles, each tangent to four others.  The red arcs form a drawing of the 
graph itself.  The red circles are also the
 bisectors  for the three pairs of nontangent circles,
and also pass through the tangencies of three rings of
 four tangent circles ,
each of which forms an instance of
 Steiner's porism .
The orthogonal circles through each triple of
 three mutually tangent circles 
(not shown) are the eight
 Apollonian circles  of the three red circles
and form a realization of the planar dual graph, a cube.

    

 

 Warren Smith has found fast algorithms for approximating the locations 
of a circle realization of a graph, but finding exact locations seems to be 
computationally difficult (in that it involves finding the roots of 
high-degree polynomials, while standard models of exact computation assume 
only the ability to handle bounded degree).  The examples on these pages 
were all compass-and-straightedge constructible, but some Koebe embeddings 
are not.  For instance, any realization of the heptagonal bipyramid
(i.e., a seven-circle  Steiner 
porism ) could be used to construct a regular heptagon (known to be 
impossible) since seven circles through triples of its tangencies meet at 
a common point and form angles of pi/7 there.

  Finally, it seems to be unknown which nonplanar graphs can be realized as tangencies 
of (non-disjoint) circles.  Any set of disjoint circles has a circle with 
degree at most five, but nondisjoint circles can have arbitrary degree (for 
instance, any hypercube skeleton can be realized).  A better 
characterization of these graphs might shed some light on the question we 
 started with , Ringel's problem of bounding their 
chromatic number.

     
Animation created by  Cinderella . 
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Last update: . 
 </body> 