 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
Geometric approximation
 
   Approximating the minimum weight Steiner triangulation . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 91-55 , ICS, UCI, 1991.   3rd ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete Algorithms,  Orlando, 1992, pp. 48–57 .   Disc. Comp. Geom.  11: 163–191, 1994 .
 
 Quadtree  based
 triangulation  gives a large but constant factor
 approximation 
to the minimum weight triangulation of a point set or
convex polygon, allowing extra Steiner points to be added as vertices.
Includes proofs of several bounds on triangulation weight relative to
the  minimum spanning tree  or non-Steiner
triangulation, and a conjecture
that for convex polygons the only points that need to be added are on
the polygon boundary.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Approximating center points with iterated Radon points .  
K. Clarkson , D. Eppstein, 
 G.L. Miller ,
 C. Sturtivant , and 
 S.-H. Teng .   9th ACM Symp. Comp. Geom.,  San Diego, 1993, pp. 91–98 .   Int. J. Comp. Geom. &amp; Appl.  6 (3): 357–377, 1996 .
 
Given a collection of  n  sites,
a center point is a point (not necessarily a site)
such that no hyperplane through the centerpoint
partitions the collection into a very small and a very large subset.
Center points have been used by Teng and others
as a key step in the construction of geometric separators.
One can find a point with this property by choosing
a random sample of the collection and applying
 linear programming ,
but the complexity of that method grows exponentially with the dimension.
This paper proposes an alternate method that
produces lower quality approximations (in terms of the size
of the worst hyperplane partition) but takes time
polynomial in both  n  and  d. 
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
    Approximation algorithms for geometric problems .  M. Bern 
and D. Eppstein.  
 Approximation Algorithms for NP-hard Problems  ,
 D. Hochbaum , ed.,
PWS Publishing, 1996, pp. 296–345.
 
Considers problems for which no polynomial-time exact algorithms
are known, and concentrates on bounds for worst-case approximation
ratios, especially those depending intrinsically on geometry
rather than on more general graph theoretic or metric space formulations.
Includes sections on the
 traveling salesman problem ,
Steiner trees,
 minimum weight triangulation ,
clustering, and separation problems.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Faster geometric  k -point MST approximation . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 95-13 , ICS, UCI, 1995.  Comp. Geom. Theory &amp; Applications  8: 231–240, 1997.
 
Various authors have looked at a variant of geometric clustering
in which one must select  k  points that can be connected by a
small
 spanning tree .  The problem is NP-complete (for
variable  k );
good approximations are known based on dynamic programming techniques
but the time dependence on  n  is high.  This paper describes
a faster approximation algorithm based on dynamic programming in
quadtrees, and a general technique
based on that in " Iterated nearest neighbors "
for reducing the dependence
on  n  in any approximation algorithm.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Deterministic sampling and range counting in geometric data streams .  A. Bagchi ,
 A. Chaudhary ,
D. Eppstein, and
 M. T. Goodrich .  arXiv:cs.CG/0307027 .  20th ACM Symp. Comp. Geom.,  Brooklyn, 2004, pp. 144–151.   ACM Trans. Algorithms  3(2):A16, 2007 .
 
We describe an efficient streaming-model construction of epsilon-nets
and epsilon-approximations, and use it to find deterministic streaming-model
approximation algorithms for iceberg range queries and for various
robust statistics problems.
  
( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
     
 Geometry  --
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 