  Nenad Medvidovic - Neno<body>
  
  
  I have graduated!    
  My  home  is USC now.    
  
    Neno Medvidovic  

    Area: Software
   Advisor:
  Richard N. Taylor  
   Electronic Mail:  &lt;neno@ics.uci.edu&gt;  
   Office: ICS2 248
   Office Phone: (714) 824-3100
   
    Research Projects:  
   Work on miscellaneous aspects of 
 software architectures , and the 
 C2 architectural style  
in particular:
	  The project through which I was introduced to the software
architecture field:
  The Chiron-2 Petri Net: A Multi-Level Block Experiment Using Chiron-1 
   Implementation of the  C2 class framework, graphics binding, and prototype
development environment  in  Java , done in cooperation
with  Peyman Oreizy .  
    C2SADEL 
(Software Architecture Description and Evolution Language).  The preceding
link points to an older version of the language.  The full specification of
the latest version can be found in my 
 
dissertation .
   The 
 DRADEL  
environment for architecture-based development and evolution.
     I have also written several papers that attempt to provide
theoretical foundations to the software architecture research area:
   A simple definition and an extensible classification and comparison 
framework for architecture description languages (ADLs).  The paper also 
surveys a number of existing ADLs based on the framework.
    
      Full paper .  
    
     Shorter version  of the paper (in Proceedings of ESEC/FSE'97).  
     A study of the problem areas for which software architectures and
ADLs are particularly well suited (in Proceedings of DSL'97).
   Available in 
      HTML  and
      Postscript . 
     A 
 position paper  
that outlines the bounds of applicability of software architectures
(in Proceedings of ISAW-3). 
   
      Other Stuff About Me:  

   My 
      vita .
        
   
    Favorite Quote:  

"I am pretty cool, Beavis, but even I can't change the future."                             Butt-Head 

   Department of Information and Computer Science,  University of California, Irvine CA 92697-3425
 
</body> 