 Handouts<body>

 
 Handouts 
 
  Introduction to Computer Science I 
ICS-21: Lecture A/Labs 1-3 
Spring 2012  
  
  
  
The following is a list of general-purpose handouts available for this course.
You may also want to look at related materials on the following web pages:
   Lecture Schedule/Notes ,
   Sample Programs , and
   Online Resources .
  


   




 
 Java and Eclipse  (Download/Installation Instructions) 
Instructions for downloading and installing Java and the Eclipse IDE
  (which also contain all the necessary links to download these products).
  

 
  Windows Operating System &amp; Eclipse IDE  
Instructions for performing a wide variety of tasks with the Windows
  Operating System and the Eclipse Integerated Development Environment(IDE).
You will be performing these tasks repeatedly during the semester.
  

 
  Academic Integrity Contract  
Discusses the kinds of collaboration allowed and disallowed for the
  various testing instruments in this course.
You must read and sign a copy.
  

 
  Academic Dishonesty Reporting Form  
In case you are interested, here is the standard form UCI
   supplies instructors for reporting violations.
  

   

 ASCII Character Set Reference  
A table showing how values of the types  int  and  char 
  interconvert.
  

 Bugs: An Explanation  
A description of  bugs  in the context of computer programming.
  


 The Eclipse Debugger  
A reference and tutorial on using the Eclipsed Debugger.
It includes information about observing method calls and variables, single
  steppting through code in method, and setting/clearing unconditional and
  conditional breakpoints.
  

 Glossary  
A glossary defining many important programming (and Java) terms.
  

 Hackers and Painters  
The title (and most interesting chapter) in a book written by 
     Paul Graham :
 Hackers and Programmers: Big Ideas from the Computer Age .
I highly recommend this book.
All chapters are posted on the author's web pages.
  

 Help Schedule  
Days/times for all staff help, including instructor class and office hours,
  CA consulting/help sessions, and regular Wean (5419) cluster hours.
  

 Java Coding Style  
A description of one Java coding style (about 400K in adobe pdf) described by
  a well known Java/OOP expert.
  

 
Java Conventions for Java (Sun Microsystems)  
Code Conventions for the JavaTM Programming Language, developed by Sun.
Note quite as extensive as the document below, but an easy place to start.
  

 Pair Programming  
An introduction to Extreme Programming (XP) concentrating on testing and
  pair programming.
Read this before doing pair-programming on a programming assignment.
  

 Regular Expressions  
In the context of studying EBNF, we will discuss using regular expressions
  for searching in the Eclipse text editor.
Each regular expression is like the right hand side of an EBNF rule,
  although it uses a different notation and includes more options.
Three other popular (by google) web sites are
   
    Regular Expressions  and
   
    Using Regular Expressions  and
   
    A Tao of Regular Expressions .
  


   Surveys and Summaries 

 
  Mid 2 Semester Survey  
A survey I'll direct you to fill out about 1/4 the way through
  the semester (for the "Java Review" material).



 
 Computer Survey  
Results of computer ownership surveys that I have collected over the past
  few years.
Data for this semester will be added during the first few weeks of school.
  

  </body> 