 Informatics 141 / CS 121 Course Reference<body>
Winter 2015 —  Information and Computer Sciences  —  UC Irvine 
 Informatics 141 / Computer Science 121: Course Reference  INFORMATION RETRIEVAL</strong> 
   Instructor:   David G. Kay ,
  5056 Donald Bren Hall (  kay@uci.edu  ). TAs:
  Siva Thirunavukkarasu 
   (  sthiruna@uci.edu  ) and
   Shriti Raj
  (  shritir@uci.edu  ). 
  Quick links:   Textbook   Assignments 

  Piazza Q&amp;A (public)  
 Resources  
  Course goals:  Today we can gain new insights and make better decisions to a degree impossible even ten years ago due to the advent of faster and smaller processors, denser and cheaper storage, proliferating mobile devices, and widespread internet use. This phenomenon is sometimes called "big data." This course introduces the enabling factors, implementation techniques, and implications of this data deluge, with an emphasis on using and implementing software tools. [Acknowledgements: These course materials borrow heavily, with permission, from those of Professors Crista Lopes and Don Patterson.]  
  Enrollment:</strong> Unfortunately, more people wish to enroll in this course than we can accommodate. A  longer description  of the circumstances is available. At the instructional level, the only possible last-minute resolution is finding a classroom with more physical seats, but we can't be sure that's possible. Everyone who is not officially enrolled should have an alternative plan that does not involve this course this quarter.  But you should contact the ICS Student Affairs Office right away, via Email to ucounsel@uci.edu, if you're not enrolled, if Infx 141/CS 121 is a graduation requirement for you, if no other course can be substituted, and if you would satisfy all other graduation requirements by the end of Summer 2015; if that applies to you, send the message so at least the demand can be assessed. 
   Prerequisite courses and concepts:  The official prerequisites for this course are at least four quarters of programming, familiarity with Java, and a course in statistics. Those without the official prerequisites will have lower priority for enrollment than those who have them. If it should happen that you are able to enroll without the official prerequisites, you do so at your own risk: It is possible that completing the coursework will require prerequisite knowledge that we don't have time to teach and that will take you more time to acquire than you have available. 
  We also expect you to have these basic
  computing skills:  Searching and browsing the Web, reading and sending Email,
  downloading files, viewing and printing PDF (Adobe Acrobat) documents, and
  creating or saving documents for Email and other purposes in plain ASCII
text form (not HTML or Word attachments).  
   Meeting place and times:  Lecture meets
  Tuesdays and Thursdays from 11:00 to 12:20 in ICS 174. Discussion meets Wednesdays from 5:00 to 5:50 in Rowland Hall 101. Details and advice on the assignments will be covered in the discussion section.
  
 
 The projection screen and audio of each class will be recorded and available through UCI Replay; after each class, you will receive electronic mail with the link for access. We must note, however, that this process is not 100% reliable; some classes may end up not being recorded. Moreover, the recordigs do not capture questions, interactive activities, or work on the whiteboard. They're convenient if you're forced to miss a class, but they're not an equivalent substitute for showing up in person. 
   Office hours: 
I will be in or near
my office during these scheduled times, during which course-related matters
will have first priority: 
Tuesdays from 12:30 to 1:15 and Thursdays from 9:30 to 10:00.  I may need
to adjust these times after the first week.
 Of course emergencies may come
up, but I will try to give advance notice of any change.  If I'm not
immersed in something else, I'll be glad to answer short questions whenever
I'm in my office, so feel free to drop by any time.
  The TAs
  will hold scheduled hours as needed at a time and place to be announced. We'll also be
  happy to make appointments for other times during the week. 
   Questions and announcements:  You can
  usually get a response to your course-related questions within a few hours
  (perhaps a bit longer on the weekends) by sending electronic mail to the
  address   i141@uci.edu  
  or   cs121@uci.edu  . We will never intentionally ignore a message, so if you don't receive a response, write again; sometimes overactive spam filters snag a legitimate message. Using course-specific subject lines and your UCInet Email address will help your messages get noticed. 
 Email you send to the addresses above is private between you, the TA, the reader, and me. We have also set up a more public discussion forum at  www.piazza.com ; we think Piazza will be particularly useful for advice and tips as you work on your assignments. 
  We may also send course announcements by Email
  to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email regularly.
  Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
  has for you (your UCInet ID).  If you prefer to read your Email on another
  account, you should set your UCInet account to forward your Email to your
  preferred account (you can do this on the web at   http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html  .
  Don't let this slide; if you miss official announcements, your grade
  could suffer. 
This course has a home page at   http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/i141/  ; an archive of official course Email is available on your MyEEE page.
   Textbook:  
   Introduction to Information Retrieval  by Manning, Raghavan, and Schutze.  More details are available on the  resources page . 
   Course structure:     Assignments   (55% of the course grade, with later assignments  weighted more
  heavily than earlier ones)   Class participation  (10%).     Two quizzes,  on dates to be announced, each covering the most recent four or five weeks of the course(together 35%)   
  In keeping with the project-oriented nature of the course, there will not be a formal, written final exam.  However, demonstrations of your projects will be required and may be scheduled during exam week.
 
 We determine final grades neither on a formal curve (with equal numbers of As and Fs, Bs and Ds, and so on) nor on a straight, fixed scale.
  We recommend that you focus not on letter grades but on learning what's necessary to complete the projects and earn high scores; the grades will follow from that. 
  We're required to say that in unusual
  circumstances, these criteria could change, but we do not expect that to
  happen. 
  Special needs:  Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation due to a disability should contact the UCI Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to explore the possible range of accommodations. We encourage all students having difficulty, whether or not due to a disability, to consult privately with the instructor at any time.  
  What you must do right now to get started
  in Informatics 141 / CS 121:   — If you do not have a UCInet ID,
  get one.  See   http://activate.uci.edu/  .  
  — If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
  UCInet account, redirect your mail at   http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html  . 
  — Go to  checkmate.ics.uci.edu , log in with your UCInet ID, choose "Course Listing" and "Winter 2015,"click "Go" next to Informatics 141, and then click "List me for this course." You'll submit most of your work electronically; this step is necessary to set that up.  
  — Sign yourself up for  Informatics 141 / CS 121 on Piazza.com . 
   Good advice and helpful hints:  
  Check your electronic mail regularly; this
  is an official channel for course announcements. When sending course-related mail, start the subject line with "Infx 141" or "CS 121" or "IR class". 

  Always keep your own copy of each assignment,
  both electronically and on paper; if an assignment should get lost in the
  shuffle (or if a file server should crash, which has happened
  in the past), we'll expect you to be able to supply a replacement easily. 
  If you find yourself having trouble or getting
  behind, speak with the instructor.  But  never  take the shortcut
  of copying someone else's work and turning it in; the consequences can
  be far worse than just a low score on one assignment.  The ICS department
  takes academic honesty very seriously; for a more complete discussion, see
  the  course collaboration
  guidelines  and the ICS academic honesty policy:   http://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/policies/index.php  . 

    Approximate course outline:   
         Week   
       Datre   
       Topics    
      1.  
     6 January 
     Introduction to the course and "big data"   
         
     8 January 
     Web search basics (Ch. 19 in the Manning text) 
      2.  
      13 January  
     Text processing 
         
      15 January  
     Search engine optimization 
      3.  
      20 January  
     Web crawling (Ch. 20) 
         
      22 January  
     Web crawling 
      4.  
      27 January  
      Index construction and scoring (Ch. 4)  
         
      29 January  
     Querying, scoring, term weighting, vector space model (Ch. 1, Ch. 6) 
      5.  
      3 February  
     Querying, scoring, term weighting, vector space model 
         
      5 February  
     — First Quiz — 
      6.  
      10 February  
     Link analysis (Ch. 21) 
         
      12 February  
     Link analysis 
      7.  
      17 February  
      Matrix decompositions and latent semantic indexing (Ch. 18)  
         
      19 February  
      Evaluation in IR (Ch. 8)  
      8.  
      24 February  
      Law and ethics; intellectual property law  
         
      26 February  
     Intellectual property law 
      9.  
      3 March  
     Privacy issues 
         
      5 March  
      — No class meeting —  
      10.  
      10 March  
     — Second Quiz — 
         
     12 Ma rch  
       Looking back and looking forward   
         F.  
      Exam Week  
      No formal written final exam, but some project demos may be scheduled this week.  
        David G. Kay ,  kay@uci.edu      
Monday, February 23, 2015 9:21 PM
  
</body> 