 Southern California SPIN
Speaker's Meeting Guidelines<body>

 
   Southern California SPIN  
Speaker's Meeting Guidelines  

 
 
 Thank you for agreeing to participate in our upcoming IRUS SPIN 
meeting. Below are a few guidelines to help you become familiar with the
Southern California SPIN and to prepare your 
presentation.  We hope you will feel relaxed among this group 
of peers who have come to share information on a topic of 
mutual interest.   Who we are: 

 
    We are a group of software engineering professionals 
  interested in process improvement.    We come from large and small companies, aerospace, medical 
  instruments, software developers, tool vendors, business, academia,
  and other fields.    We generally meet the last Friday of the month at the 
   University of California, Irvine.    We are sponsored by the 
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software (IRUS) , which
  is supported by 
 
corporate sponsorships . A current 
 
sponsor list  is available. 
     Benefits to You: 

   Publicity for yourself and your work.
   Information dissemination and feedback on your work.
   Opportunity to meet and network with people in your community.
   You will not receive any travel costs, but you will receive 
     publicity, appreciation, and applause.
   You are also invited to be our guest at the steering committee lunch 
     about 30 minutes after the meeting.  At this meeting we plan future 
     SPIN meetings, discuss community issues, etc.
   Before the Meeting Day:   

The meeting coordinator will request your full contact information. This
information is needed by both the meeting coordinator and IRUS. We
need:
    Phone number
    Email address
    URL (if available)
    Fax
    Complete snail mail address for sending parking pass, etc.
    

The meeting coordinator will request additional
information from you for publicity
  three (3) months</strong> in advance (see 
 Flyers/Publicity  below).

 
About three weeks prior to the meeting, you will receive a letter from
IRUS containing information about A/V (see 
 Equipment  below) and
viewgraphs/handouts (see  Handouts  below) as well as
directions, a map, parking information, a parking permit, and a
flyer. 
  
(General directions to UCI including parking information
are available on the web at
 
http://www.ics.uci.edu/IRUS/directions/directions_uci.html .)

  
If you have any questions about the meeting, SPIN, or IRUS, please feel
free to contact Debra Brodbeck, IRUS Technical Relations Director, at
 brodbeck@ics.uci.edu ,
(949) 824-2260.

    The Meeting: 


 

Your meeting coordinator will inform you as to the format and time 
allotted for your presentation.

  
Plan to arrive at the meeting room at least  15 minutes  prior to your
talk.
  
Typical meeting formats are 1) a single speaker who speaks for either a 2 1/2 
hour talk interspersed with about 30 minutes of questions and answers, 
or a 2 hour talk with 20-30 minutes minutes for questions and answers 
at the end, 2) two speakers who are allotted 75 minutes each for their
presentation and questions and answers, 3) a single presenter 
followed by a panel, and 4) special formats.

  

Presentations should be technical and informational, not sales pitches.  
You are 
welcome to provide sales literature for the handout table, and to 
discuss products and services in off-line networking conversations.

    Handouts:  
  
The SPIN audience will expect copies of your viewgraphs as handouts.
  
IRUS prefers for speakers to bring these copies. We ask for 60 copies,
printed 2-4 viewgraphs per page (but ensure that
the diagrams and text aren't too small). 

  
Electronic versions of the presentation (power point or HTML only) 
or links to the presentation are appreciated and will be included
on the web version of the flyer. 

  
If you are flying in or cannot bring viewgraph copies, IRUS will 
make the copies.  The electronic version or hard copy master should be
sent to Debra Brodbeck 
( brodbeck@ics.uci.edu ) 
such that it arrives at least one week in advance of the meeting.  

   For a hard copy master,  print single-sided and 2-4 viewgraphs per 
page. Mail to:

  
    
 snail mail:     
	Debra Brodbeck 
	Information and Computer Science 
	240 ICS2 
	University of California, Irvine 
	Irvine, CA 92697-3425   
 
   

 
 FedEx or other special delivery:   
	Debra Brodbeck 
	Information and Computer Science  
	CS 444 
	University of California, Irvine 
	Irvine, CA 92697-3425  
	(949) 824-7403
	  
    
 Please note that we are unable to make copies the day of the 
meeting. 

  
You may bring any additional materials as you see fit. They will be 
placed on the information table with your viewgraph handouts.

   Equipment:  

 
A  plain overhead projector  will be provided unless you request
otherwise - in advance. Other equipment available upon request includes
an SVGA projector, a second plain overhead projector and screen, laser
pointer, and flip chart/markers.
Be sure to request in advance a lavalier or hand held microphone if you 
are not sure your voice can fill a room of sixty people.

   AV/equipment requests should be made to 
Aileen Broccardo, IRUS Administrator,
 aileen@ics.uci.edu , (949) 824-1357.

    Before the Start of the Presentations:   

 
 The meeting room is set up an hour before the first speaker is 
introduced.  Refreshments are served, attendance is recorded, 
and members of the audience network with whomever shows up.

    During the Presentation(s): 

 
 The meeting coordinator will introduce the first speaker at 
9:00 a.m. 
 Let the audience know if you will answer questions as they come 
up, or if you would like the audience to hold questions until 
the end of the presentation.

  
Before the break (which occurs at about at 10:15 a.m.), Debra Brodbeck,
IRUS Technical Relations Director, will make various announcements about
IRUS, sponsorship of IRUS, and upcoming meetings.

    During the break:   

 
 The speaker is usually surrounded by several audience members 
for follow up questions.  
 More networking takes place as the last of the refreshments are 
disposed of.

    After the break:   

 
If there are two speakers, the meeting coordinator will introduce the 
second speaker.

If there is only one speaker, that speaker continues his/her
presentation.

    At the Conclusion of the Meeting:   

 
 The meeting coordinator will thank the presenter(s), and the 
IRUS Technical Relations Director and SPIN Steering Committee Leader will 
make any final announcements before adjourning the meeting at noon.

  
 The second speaker in turn will be besieged by people with more 
questions.  However, the meeting coordinator and others will be 
in a hurry to rush off to the SPIN steering committee meeting 
that follows immediately.  You are invited to lunch with the 
steering committee.  If you do not have time, please forgive 
the coordinator and others for rushing off.

   Flyers/Publicity:    

 The meeting coordinator will request the following information 
   from you for the flyer  three (3) months  in advance of the meeting:
  
   Name, Title, and Affiliation (as you want it on the flyer)
    Email Address
    URL (if available)
    Presentation title
    Presentation abstract (about 100-200 words)
    Bio (about 100 words)
   
We may edit abstracts and bios to fit our space limitations.  We 
prefer plain ascii text by email.  We have no need for photos.

  
Your bio will also be used to introduce you. Send additional information you 
would like to have included in 
your introduction to the meeting coordinator.

   Each IRUS SPIN flyer contains:  
  
   Meeting topic
  Speaker(s) name, title, affiliation, email address and URL (if available)
  Presentation title and a one or two paragraph abstract 
  Speaker's bio(s) - one paragraph
  Coordinator's name, title, affiliation and contact info 
  Date, time, location
  Various IRUS information, e.g. Corporate Sponsors
   
For examples, you can find flyers from previous meetings on the
     IRUS schedule of 
    events  on the web. 
    ( http://www.ics.uci.edu/IRUS/schedule.html )

    We publicize the upcoming meetings in multiple ways:  
  
    Flyers are distributed electonically to the 
 IRUS email list 
 and
     other email lists.
   Hard copy flyers are mailed to the 
 
IRUS distribution list .
   Hard copy flyers are distributed at SPIN meetings beginning at
     least two meetings prior.
  An html version of the flyer is placed on the
     IRUS schedule of 
    events  on the web. 
( http://www.ics.uci.edu/IRUS/schedule.html )
  Announcements are placed in local organization newsletters, email, 
    and web pages.

   
Return to  SPIN 

   
Written by Warren Scheinin, (310) 606-3439, wmscheinin@west.raytheon.com 
Updated 7/20/1998, by Debra A. Brodbeck,UCI/IRUS brodbeck@ics.uci.edu 
Updated 8/04/1998, by Debra A. Brodbeck 
Updated 8/27/1998, by Debra A. Brodbeck
 



 </body> 