 Fact Sheet<body>

 
 Fact Sheet 
 
  Introduction to Computer Science I 
ICS-21: Lecture A/Labs 1-3 
Spring 2012
  
  
   Staff Information 
     Instructor         Richard Pattis  
    Email: Instructor     pattis@ics.uci.edu   
    &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp Class      ics21-S12@classes.uci.edu   
    AIM Handle         richardepattis  
     Office Location &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp    DBH 4062 (Bren Hall) 
    Office Phone      (949) 824-2704 
    Office Hours     
     Mon   
    12:00pm - &amp;nbsp    1:30pm 
         
    
     Wed   
    12:00pm - &amp;nbsp    1:30pm 
    
     Fri   
    12:00pm - &amp;nbsp    1:30pm 
         

     
    TA (Labs 1-2) &amp;nbsp   
William Lam    
   
willmlam@uci.edu
   

    TA (Lab 3) &amp;nbsp   
Laleh Jalali    
   
lalehj@uci.edu
   



     
    Lab Tutor (Lab 1)     
Michael Thomas   
   
thomasmd@uci.edu
   

    Lab Tutor (Lab 2)     
Swati Bhonsle   
   
sbhonsle@uci.edu
   

    Lab Tutor (Lab 3)     
Ariel Meng   
   
lhmeng@uci.edu
   





   
   
      
   
      
   
      
   
      
   
      
       William Lam TA Labs 1-2  
      Laleh Jalali TA Lab 3  
      Michael Thomas Tutor Lab 1  
      Swati Bhonsle Tutor Lab 2  
      Ariel Meng Tutor Lab 3  
     Course Help 

 Instructor : 
Please feel free to drop by any time during my office hours, without an
  appointment: mine are   open  office hours.
Also, I frequently attend lab, which is another time that students can ask me
  quesions, including questions about the lab and general questions about the 
  course.
If you cannot make any of these times and want to schedule an appointment at
  some other time, call or e-mail me to arrange one (or, if the question is
  small, just send  me e-mail asking it).
I answer e-mail periodically throughout the day (from about 8:30am to 10:00pm).
I will also hold online office hours (Monday-Thursday and Sunday, 9:00pm
  to 10:00pm) where I am reachable by by AIM handle  richardepattis .
 

 Staff : The TAs and Lab Tutors are avaiable during labs to help students.
Don't hesitate to approach them with questions.
I encourage students to talk about programming with the staff and with
  each other: asking and answering questions, and understanding the answers
  to their questions (and if not, asking more questions).
Just as with understanding a natural language, the more you talk about
  programming (and program) the easier it will become.
  

 Online : 
The most useful online mechanism for handing questions/discussions is EEE's
  
 Forums on MessageBoard 
These forums allow students to ask questions (or start discussions) easily, as
  well as supply answers (or participate in the discsussion further).
Initially, I have created four forums for ICS-21:
   Java and Eclipse
  Lecture Material
  Programming Assignments
  Quizzes and Exams
  
If the need arises for other forums (tell me if you think another would be
  useful), I will create them.
You can instruct EEE to email you links to any active discussions in the
  forums.
In past quarters, these forums have seen a tremendous amount of traffic: course
  material has been clarified, questions have been asked and answered, and many
  interesting side-discussions have ensued.
But the efficacy depends on your participation.
 
I will broadcast information to all the students (and staff) in ICS-21
  using the   &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp 
  ICS-21 Email List 
  (ics21-S12@classes.uci.edu)   
All students and staff in the course will automatically receive emails sent to
  this address and all messages sent via this discussion list will be archived
  on the
    
  Email Archive  web page.
Mostly student-initiated questions/discussions should use the forums mentioned
  above, but sometimes students can use this email list to inform the
  instructor, staff, and other students about some timely issue: e.g.,
  Checkmate not responding to program submissions.
 
Finally remember to read the
   Announcements 
  link daily, on the course web; I tend to post long-lived information here,
  rather than via email.
  
    Lecture/Section Meeting Places and Times 
      Lecture/Lab(s)/Discussion  
 Classroom 
 Days 
 Start 
 Stop 
      Lecture  
 SSPA 1100 
 MWF 
 11:00 am 
 11:50 am 

    Lab 1  
 ICS 189 
 TuTh 
 11:00 am 
 12:50 pm 

    Lab 2  
 ICS 189 
 TuTh 
 1:00 pm 
 2:50 pm 

    Lab 3  
 ICS 183 
 TuTh 
 12:00 pm 
   1:50 pm 



    

It is well known (but underappreciated) fact that consistent attendence
  of lectures/lab is strongly correlated with good course performance;
  therefore, I expect all my students to attend classes regularly.
Plan on arriving punctually -I make important announcements at the start of
  each class- paying attention, and treating your classmates with respect.
  
If you do miss a class, your first point of contact should be other students
  who attended the class (or the TA for your section, but not me) to determine
  what you missed and how you can catch up (see the course Web too).
  

    Bottom Line
As a lecturer at UCI, my primary responsiblity is teaching; my primary
  activities are preparing course materials, teaching in class, interacting
  with students (in class, lab, and during office hours) and grading.
I plan to attend all lectures and labs -you should too.
  

 FF 
     </body> 