 SPIN Flyer<body> 
 

 

 University of California at Irvine
  Irvine Research Unit in Software 
(IRUS)  is proud to sponsor the 

 

   Software Process 
Improvement Network (SPIN)  

  Note Location!   
 

  Product Line and Domain Architectures &amp;  
Common Operating Environment (DII COE) </strong>

  


  * Friday, January 30, 1998 *  

9:00 a.m. - 12:00 noon   UCI Student Center, Monarch Bay B    
University of California, Irvine  

There is a $15.00 charge for non-sponsors.  
Checks should be made payable to  UC Regents</strong>.

  

 No reservations required.      

  

 Coordinator:  Debra A Brodbeck ,  UC Irvine /
 IRUS , 
 brodbeck@ics.uci.edu </strong>

 

  Session I: Product Line and Domain Architectures - I &amp; II </strong>

Frank C.  Belz, Technical Fellow,  TRW , 
 frank.belz@trw.com  

Judy Kerner, Senior Engineering Specialist,  
The Aerospace Corporation ,  kerner@aero.org  

  

A product-line approach to manufacturing is widespread in most U.S.
marketplaces, but less so in the software market sectors. Part I
(Belz) addresses motivations, processes, roles and environments, and
business cases for product line development of software. It emphasizes
the role of architecture in successful product-line approaches to
software, and mentions some architecture definition techniques from
the research and commercial tool communities. Part II (Kerner)
addresses the challenges presented by product line development, and
some of the reasons that this approach may not (yet) be as prevalent
as one might expect. It addresses challenges in business case
justification, organizational issues that must be overcome, and
technical challenges that are sometimes daunting. It focuses on
specific challenges that arise when the acquiring organization is not
the same as the developing organization.  It concludes with references
to ongoing efforts that are attempting to help industry to meet these
challenges.

  

  Session II: What is DoD JTA/COE?</strong> 

Sam Bowser, Senior Member of the Technical Staff, 
 The Aerospace Corporation ,  samuel.e.bowser@aero.org  

  

The Joint Technical Architecture (JTA) is a DISA initiative aimed at promoting 
interoperability and open system architectures through the use of standard 
and common infrastructure software.  JTA has been mandated on all new C4I 
systems and associated critical interfaces. This presentation will provide 
an overview of JTA and the associated Defense Information Infrastructure 
Common Operating Environment (DII COE), describing where JTA and COE are 
heading, including present trends and issues.  The issued raised regarding 
compliance problems encountered and solutions devised will be summarized.

  

  Biographies:</strong>   

Frank Belz has been Principal Investigator on several DARPA-sponsored
projects, variously teamed with Stanford University and the University
of Southern California. These projects include Domain-Specific
Software Architectures (DSSA), Computer Aided Education and Training
Initiative (CAETI), and Evolutionary Design of Complex Software
(EDCS). He initiated TRW's Infrastructure for Collaboration among
Distributed Teams (ICaDT) Project, which is introducing distributed
design teams,desktop conferencing, and "virtual spaces" into
widespread use at TRW. Previously, he facilitated the introduction of
Ada in TRW as the TRW Defense Systems Group Ada Office Manager after
leading several research projects on Ada-based tools and project
support environments. He participated in the NATO-sponsored Portable
Common Interface Set (PCIS) Programme, was a co-author of MIL-STD 1838
Common Ada Project Support Environment Interface Set (CAIS), and was a
HOLWG Distinguished Reviewer for Ada (1979-1980). He has been an
advisor to the FAA, DARPA, and the Army Science Board.

  

Judy Kerner has over 25 years of experience in the software field.
She is Principal Investigator for the Aerospace part of the USC team
on the DARPA Evolutionary Design of Complex Software (EDCS) Program.
She is the principal organizer of the annual Ground System
Architectures Workshops, which are government/industry/academia
consensus formation endeavors whose purpose is, in part, to determine
the viability of the product line approach to the development of
Ground Stations for the AF, NASA, etc. She was primary author of the
Software Engineering Standards section of the Aerospace Integrated
Open Systems Standards Profile (IOSSP) and is currently working on a
mapping from the DISA Joint Technical Architecture (JTA) to the
IOSSP. She is an active participant in the IEEE Architecture
Description Working Group.  She has been working extensively with
standards, standards profiles, and open systems since 1982,
participating in such efforts as: the development of the Common APSE
Interface Set (CAIS, MIL-STD-1838), a set of standard interfaces to
support tool portability and interoperability; and the Navy's Project
Support Environment Standards Working Group (PSESWG).  She managed
U.S. development of an implementation of the CAIS for a NATO project.

  

Dr. Bowser is a senior member of the technical staff at The Aerospace 
Corporation Systems Operations and Analysis Department.  He has over 24 
years experience in the design of military and commercial systems.  He is an 
experienced manager and project director with many years of technical 
management experience.   He has participated in  Defense Information 
Management Agency (DISA) open system initiatives since 1990.  Dr. Bowser is 
an active member of the DII COE User Interface Specification effort . 
 Current project participation includes support to MILSTAR, JTA /DII COE 
initiatives, and the Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN) software 
development and human-computer interaction standards.  He was the project 
lead in the development of TAFIM Volume 8 "DoD HCI Style Guide."

  

 Directions  to meeting are available.

  

Next Meeting:   

Date: Friday, February 27, 1998 
Topic:  
Objects &amp; Repositories  
Speaker: Sridhar Iyengar, Unisys Coporation  

The Irvine Research Unit in Software wishes to thank its corporate  sponsors :  


Sustaining:
   The Boeing Company * Boeing North American, Inc. *
    Northrop Grumman Corporation * Raytheon Company *
    Sun Microsystems Laboratories * TRW   

Supporting:
     Beckman Instruments * Continuus Software Corporation *
    FileNet Corporation * Lockheed Martin * Logicon Ultrasystems Space &amp; Engineering
    Operations * NASA Ames Research Center *
    Printronix, Inc.    

For further information on  SPIN  or  IRUS,    contact  Debra Brodbeck 
at
(714) 824-2260;  brodbeck@ics.uci.edu 
 

        
  
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science  
University of California, Irvine  CA 92697-3425   
</body> 