 CSCI 140<body>
 CSCI 140: Algorithms - Pomona Section (Spring 2017) 
  Piazza page 
 Piazza resources 

 Instructors and Office Hours 

Instructor: William Devanny 
Office: Edmunds Hall 128 
Email: weda2016@pomona.edu and wdevanny@uci.edu 
Office Hours: 4:00-6:00 pm Monday and Wednesday  
TAs: Ethan Prater-Fahey, Andi Chen, Anant Jaitha 
Andi Chen's Mentor hours: 6-8 Thursday near the Edmunds Hall Labs 
Anant Jaitha's Mentor hours: 6-8 Monday near the Edmunds Hall Labs 
Ethan Prater-Fahey's Mentor hours: 6-8 Tuesday near the Edmunds Hall Labs  Lectures, Labs, and Exams 

Lecture: Monday/Wednesday 2:45-4:00 pm in Seaver Commons, Room 103 
Midterm 1: Wednesday, Feb 15th (Tentative) 
Midterm 2: Wednesday, Mar 29th (Tentative) 
Final: Monday, May 8th 2:00 pm  Course Resources 

 
This course will be taught from  Introduction to Algorithms  by Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest, and Clifford Stein. 
 

 
The Piazza forum for our class can be found  here . Course announcements, problem sets, and other resources will be posted there.
 

 
Questions about course material are best asked in person during class or office hours. Outside of these hours please try to ask questions on our Piazza forum. It is a great place for class discussion and helps other students with similar questions. You are also welcome to email me with any questions. Please include CS 140 somewhere in the subject of any emails addressed to me.
 

 
Some pages that may prove helpful for setting up and working with LaTeX:
 
   Obtaining LaTeX 
   LaTeX for Absolute Beginners" 
   A gentle introduction to LateX 
   
I am also happy to help troubleshoot LaTeX problems in office hours.
 


 Grading Policy 

 
Grades will be computed by a weighted combination of your problem sets, midterms, and final:
 

   Problem Sets (40%)
   Midterm 1 (15%)
   Midterm 2 (15%)
   Final (30%)
   
Letter grade conversions will be decided at the end of the course.
 

 Course Schedule 
Week 1 (Jan 16th) 
    No class Monday 
   Course overview
   Worst case analysis
   Big Oh notation
   Related reading: CLRS Chapters 1 and 3
  
Week 2 (Jan 23rd)
   Insertion sort
   Merge sort
   Recurrence relations
   Quick sort
   Expected case analysis
   Related reading: CLRS Chapters 2, 5.2, and 7
  
Week 3 (Jan 30th)
   Comparison sorting lower bound
   Linear time sorting
   Order statistics
   Related reading: CLRS Chapters 8 and 9
  
Week 4 (Feb 6th)
   Heaps
   Self balancing binary search trees
  
Week 5 (Feb 13th)
   Amortized analysis
    Wednesday, Feb 15: Midterm 1 
  
Week 6 (Feb 20th)
   Dynamic programming
  
Week 7 (Feb 27th)
   "Greedy" algorithms
   String algorithms
   Longest common subsequence
   String matching
  
Week 8 (Mar 6th)
   Graph algorithms
   Graph representations
   Depth first and breadth first search
   Dijkstra's algorithm
  
Week 9 (Mar 13th) -  Spring recess no classes 
Week 10 (Mar 20th)
   Kruskal's algorithm
   Disjoint sets
   Bellman Ford
   Floyd-Warshall algorithm
  
Week 11 (Mar 27th)
   Maximum flow
   Ford-Fulkerson
    Wednesday, Mar 29: Midterm 2 
  
Week 12 (Apr 3rd)
   Topological sorting
   Tarjans algorithm
  
Week 13 (Apr 10th)
   Maximum bipartite matching
  
Week 14 (Apr 17th)
   P vs. NP
   NP-Completeness
   NP-Hardness
  
Week 15 (Apr 24th)
   Reductions
  
Week 16 (May 1st)
   Approximation algorithms
   Problem Sets 

 
The problem sets will be released weekly on  the course Piazza forum  for our class under the resources tab. The problem sets will generally be due on the following Wednesday.
 

 
Collaborating with other students on the homework is highly encouraged, but copying answers is not okay.  Make sure everything you write down you understand and is in your own words.  Giving others credit for their contribution is important so please list anyone you collaborate with on the assignment.  For the first three homeworks you are required to type them up using latex.  After that you are welcome to hand write or type up your solutions.
 

 
Some homeworks will include optional challenge extra credit problems. Earning full credit will require thorough and correct answers.
 


 Academic Honesty 

 
The Pomona College policy on academic honesty can be found  here .
 

 
All of the work you complete in this class should be your own.  Discussing course material at a high level is encouraged, however at no point should you share written or typed answers with other students.  Additionally, answers on exams and quizzes should be entirely your own work.  Exams will be closed-note and closed-book.
 

 Accommodations for Disabilities 

 
If you feel you need any accommodations based on a disability, please contact me and  Accessibility Resources and Services  as soon as possibile to ensure the apporpriate accommodations can me made.
 

 Acknowledgements 
 Portions of this course are based on similar Algorithms courses taught at Pomona College including those taught by Professor Yi Chen. 
</body> 