 Special Events and Activities<body>
 
 
  

 Special Events and Activities 
 
IRUS sponsors periodic special events based on emerging trends in the
field.   These typically one-time events enable the IRUS community to 
stay abreast of current trends, collectively explore relevant issues, and 
maintain a competitive edge.   This sampling of special events addresses 
a variety of topics.   

 

 Java Testing Workshop and Tutorial 
 
This three-day workshop, held at UC Irvine, was co-sponsored by IRUS and
SunTest, the Java Testing business unit of Sun Microsystems Laboratories.   
It was instructed by SunTest and augmented with presentations by IRUS faculty.
Attendees received a free license for the tools used in the workshop, 
including free upgrades for one year. 

  

  W3C Symposium and WebDAV Working Group Meeting 
 

The goal of the 
 
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)  
is to develop common standards for the world wide web.  The 
 
Internet Engineering Task Force (ITEF) 
  
World Wide Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning (WEBDAV) Working Group 
is developing interoperability specifications for how to perform remote 
authoring and versioning of web content. IRUS was pleased to co-sponsor a 
two-day W3C symposium, enabling IRUS sponsors to participate in this 
limited-attendance event. IRUS also sponsored a two-day WebDAV working group 
meeting, held at UC Irvine.

  

 International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) 
 

IRUS was pleased to have provided support for ICSE, the premier
international conference on the topic of software engineering. ICSE is 
a week long event sponsored by 
  ACM  
   SIGSOFT 
and 
  IEEE 
  Computer Society 
  TCSE,  
featuring prestigious keynotes, a technical program, a
doctoral symposium, research demonstrations, commercial exhibitions, 
workshops, and tutorials.  IRUS has supported ICSE 16, the ICSE 16 
Software Engineering/Human Computer Interaction Workshop, and 
 
ICSE 97 (ICSE 19). 

  

 Human Computer Interaction (HCI) Consortium 
 

This ten year old consortium, centered at the University of Colorado,
Boulder, sponsors an annual basic research meeting. Member organizations, 
which are drawn from universities and commercial and government research 
labs, include Apple, Bellcore, NYNEX, SunSoft, Tektronix, US West, 
Xerox PARC, Carnegie Mellon University, University of Colorado, Georgia Tech, 
MIT, Virginia Tech, and UC Irvine. 
 
IRUS,  
the UCI 
 
Information and Computer Science Department,  
and the UCI 
 
Center for Research on Information Technology and Organizations (CRITO)  
share the UCI membership. 

  

 Software Engineering Tools and Technology (SETT) Tools Fair 
 

This one day IRUS event featured offerings from popular vendors and
avant garde solutions from research labs. Attendees experienced leading 
products and state-of-the-art technologies, received valuable advice 
from exhibitors, learned about key products and solutions, evaluate 
software based on hands on tool demonstrations, and gained educational 
advantages by seeing new technologies in action.

  

  COCOMO 2.0 
 
IRUS is also involved with the
 COCOMO 2.0
project ,
a joint effort with the
 
University of Southern California's 
 
Center for Software Engineering (USC/CSE) .

  
 Back to the IRUS home page 
   
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science   
University of California, Irvine  
Irvine, CA 92697-3425
 
 
</body> 