 US 197B Course Reference<body>
 Spring 2016 
—  UTeach Program   —   Division of Undergraduate Education  —  UC Irvine  
  UTeach Seminar (University Studies 197C) 
  UTeach Practicum  
 Course Reference 

 
   Instructors:   
 David G. Kay ,
  5056 Donald Bren Hall
(  kay@uci.edu  ); 
 Gail K. Hart ,
229 Humanities Instructional Building (  gkhart@uci.edu  ); 
Jacky Schlegel
(  schlegej@uci.edu  ) 
  Quick links:   Piazza Q&amp;A 
 Resources  
  Course goals and learning outcomes:   This course is exclusively for participants in the 2015–16 UTeach program. [Applications for the 2016–17 program will be available in Spring 2016 at the  UTeach Program  site.] It runs in parallel to the UTeachers' own seminars and provides a venue for comparing notes, sharing experiences, and exchanging advice. 
 
   Meeting place and times:   Class meets
Thursdays from 5:00 to 5:50 in Donald Bren Hall 1420. We may skip a session or two later in the quarter, depending on how things are going. 
 
 Office hours:   We're happy to hear from UTeachers any time. Drop by, send a message, arrange a specific time if you like. You can also get pretty rapid feedback from your colleagues and instructors  by posting on Piazza.com. 
  We will never intentionally ignore a message, so if you don't receive a response, write again; sometimes overactive spam filters snag a legitmate message.   
 
We will also send course announcements by Email
to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email regularly.
 Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
has for you (your UCInet ID).  If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
UCInet account (which is a good idea, since if your UCInet account's mailbox fills up, you stop receiving mail), redirect your mail at   http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html   . 
 
   Course structure: 
This course is graded P/NP. Passing requires professional performance in coming to US 197C meetings and in running your own seminar. 
  Special needs:  Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation due to a disability should contact the UCI Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to explore the possible range of accommodations. We encourage all students having difficulty, whether or not due to a disability, to consult privately with the instructor at any time. 

</body> 