 <body>

Space-Time Modeling 
  

 
   
 

 


      People  

	  Research 
		   Overview  
			  Projects  
			  Publications  
			  Grants  
		  

	  Education 
		   Courses  
			  Journal Club  
			  Opportunities for Students  
		  

	  News &amp; Events 
		   News  
			  Recent Presentations  
			  Upcoming Presentations  
		  

  

 




 2012 

  Mark Fiecas received his PhD degree in Biostatistics from Brown University. His research was on connectivity measures in brain imaging. Mark is now a post-doctoral scholar in the Department of Psychiatry at UC-San Diego. 
   Cristina Gorrostieta received her PhD degree in Biostatistics from Brown University. Her dissertation research was on complex dependence measures in multivariate time series analysis. 
   NSF will fund the workshop  Developing Novel Statistical Methods for Neuroimaging  which will be held in San Diego before JSM 2012. The PI is H. Ombao and co-organizers are Martin Lindquist (Columbia) and Wesley Thompson (UC San Diego).  
   Collaborator Giovanni Motta (Maastricht Univ) visited UC-Irvine from Jan - March 2012.  
   Hernando Ombao started his new position as Associate Professor in the Department of Statistics at UC-Irvine.  
  2011 

  Hakmook Kang received his PhD degree in Biostatistics from Brown University. His research was on Spatio-Spectral Analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging data. Dr. Kang is now Assistant Professor of Biostatistics at Vanderbilt University.  
   Devin Koestler won the Student Paper Award which was presented at the ENAR conference in Miami, FL. His paper, co-authored with H. Ombao, was on forecasting census counts using both seasonal and patients' clinical data.  
   Hakmook Kang is the 2011 winner of the John van Ryzin Award for Best Paper. The award was presented at the ENAR conference in Miami, FL. 
   Dan van Lunen received his ScB degree in Applied Mathematics from Brown University. Dan wrote a thesis on online change-point detection under the direction of H. Ombao. 
  2010 

  Mark Fiecas received one of the Student Awards for his paper on generalized shrinkage for estimating partial coherence. The award was presented at the New England Statistics Symposium at Harvard University. 
   Dan van Lunen, undergraduate student in Applied Mathematics, received the summer research training award to compare diffusion tensor imaging data recorded under different scanning protocols.  
  






</body> 