 Step 2: Honors Seminar (ICS H197) |  
     
             
         Skip to Main Content 
       
             
                     
             Program Overview  
  Apply  
  Forms  
  Resources  
  Student Testimonials  
  Contact Us  
  
             
         
           
           
               
           
                                ICS Honors Program  
                   
         
                             
         
                   
       
         
                 
                                                   
              
                                     
                             Step 2: Honors Seminar (ICS H197) 
                                          

 
  
  
   
       
  
    
   
         
 ICS H197 provides an opportunity for the Bren School's undergraduate honors students to learn about the research taking place in the school and to begin to get involved with this research. The main purpose of this course is to help you learn what sort of research is being conducted, which people do what, and how to get connected with a research project. 
 Several types of meetings are planned for this seminar, including the following: 
  We will meet with you to give you an overview of the program. 
 Many of the faculty will give a presentation about their research interests. 
 We may have other visitors, such as a panel of current ICS Honors Program students, a panel of graduate students, etc. 
 We will ask students in the class to talk about research projects they are investigating. 
  One of your major goals in this course is to gain an understanding of what research is being pursued in the school and what areas might be of interest to you for your project. This is crucial, since it should help you complete your second goal: selection of your faculty advisor. Remember that the arrangement must be mutually acceptable, so there is no guarantee that the first faculty member you talk to will say yes; it may be, for example, that they have no suitable project in mind at the time you ask. 
 In addition to ICS H197, students will be required to enroll in either CS 200S or In4matx 209S.  These courses are graduate seminars that will introduce students to various research areas.  Students in the ICSHP will automatically be authorized for enrollment in the graduate seminars.  All students are encouraged to enroll in the seminars prior to doing their research, so that they may connect with potential faculty advisors. 
  
   Enrolling in ICS H197 </strong> 
 In order to enroll in ICS H197, please follow instructions for submitting an application prior to requesting an authorization code from Jessica Shanahan (shanahan [at] uci.edu).    
  
  
   
                           
                        
                       
         
               
     
              </body> 