 Chimera 2.0 Tutorial: Using the Jimage client application<body>
 

 Using the Jimage Client Application 

   
Jimage is a Java program that will display gif and jpeg images. 
 

 
 The Jimage 
program you download from the Chimera 2.0 website has some special features 
added so that it can communicate with Chimera.  These will be demonstrated  
later in the tutorial.  
 

  Starting Jimage on different platforms 

 
To run Jimage, start it by using the Java interpretor.  
(Be sure that both the Hyperweb Manager and 
the Chimera Server are running.  This is not critical, but since 
you are using this example to use Chimera, you will not be able to 
connect to the Chimera hyperweb you are interested in.)  
 

   On Unix platforms, enter:
	 
	java jimage.jimage
	   

       On Windows NT, use the command line interface and enter:
	 
	java jimage.jimage

    Jimage will come up as the following window:
 

   

  Note: When Jimage starts, it looks for the Chimera Server.  If 
the Chimera Server is running, it will connect with it.  The three
status bars on the bottom indicate that Jimage is connected to a
Chimera Server, a web, and an active link.
 

 
The window for Jimage will look slightly different depending
on the platform you are using.
 

  Jimage is now up and running. You will need to some gif and jpeg images 
for the program.  There are some particular images used by this
tutorial.  Please download them.
 

 Downloading Images for this Tutorial 

 
There are some images available to be downloaded from:
   Download page for the Tutorial 
 

 
We will use the following two images for this tutorial:
 

   bill.gif
       earthrise.gif
    Place them anywhere you wish in your account.
 

 Using Jimage to display the Images 

 
To use Jimage to display the two images, use the Load image command in the
File Menu.  Select each of the images downloaded.  They should become visible 
on the display.  
 

    You are now ready to start using the Chimera hypermedia system.
 

</body> 