 
Directions to Paul's Office
<body>
 
 
 Directions to Paul's Office (Bren Hall 5086) 
 

 
First, follow the
 campus directions  to
reach UCI, and check the  
campus map .
You're headed for Donald Bren Hall (building 314, grid F6
on the map) and the closest lot is 12B. 
(Note: Be sure to look for Donald Bren
 Hall , not the Bren  Event Center , which is on the other
side of campus.)
 

 
If you're coming
from the north, your best bet is to take the 405 to the 73, then take
73 south; get off at Bison, which is the last exit before it becomes a
toll road. At the top of the off-ramp, take a left onto Bison. Follow
Bison onto the campus, and take the second right onto East Peltason. The
entrance to lot 12B the first left turn after Bison, just after you
crest the hill (there's a left-turn lane, but no light or stop sign.)
 

 
If you're coming from the south on the 73, get off at the Bison exit,
and take a right onto Bison and onto the campus, then follow the
directions above.
 

 
If you're coming from the south on the 405, then get off at
Culver. Turn left onto Culver and follow it until you reach
Campus (after University and Harvard). Take a right onto Campus, and,
at the second (I think) light, a left onto East Peltason. Follow East
Peltason around to the south side of the campus; the entrance to lot
12B will be on your right after a stop sign at Los Trancos.
 

 
On your right as you enter lot 12B, there are around ten "pay and
display" spots for which you can purchase a ticket at the blue
machine. The majority of lot 12B is a permit-only lot, though,
so you'll proabbly need to get a
parking permit. You can pick one up from the any of the parking
structures. If I've arranged a permit for you, then you should just be
able to give your name and they'll give you one. The closest parking
structure is the "Engineering Parking Structure" on East
Peltason between Gabrielino and Anteater (marked ICS/ENG on the campus
map, E7). The map shows the entrance at Gabrielino, although I think
it's actually at Anteater. So, if you're coming from Bison, you pass
lot 12B, pick up your permit from the structure, and then double back.
 

 
Be sure to get a "reserved" parking permit, which will allow
you to park in spaces marked "AR"; lot 12B requires AR permits.
 

 
Park in lot 12B, and walk towards the bottom right corner (reckoning
from the entrance.) Turn right to walk along the footpath (the "ring
mall").
 

 
The corner of the parking lot you're looking for looks like this:
 

  
And then the route to follow looks like this:
 

  
That's Bren Hall that you can see through the trees; as you approach,
the shade on the sixth-floor patio is pretty distinctive.
It's the first large building directly on the path you're following:
 

  
The part of the building you
can see here is one of two arms that form an "L" shape, pointing away
from you as you come from this direction. The entrance to the building
is at the inside of the L. As you come past the first wing of the
building, you should turn right. You'll see a glass-covered stairway,
like this:
 

  
The entrance to the building is a door at the base of this
stairway. Go through the doorway and into the lobby on the right. Turn
left to find the elevators (they will be on the left again) and take
one to the fifth floor.
 

 
Turn right on exiting the elevator (it's the only way to go) and then
immediate left down the corridor. Take the next left and follow the
corridor;
my office is 5086, which will be on your right, a couple of doors
after the corridor makes another left turn.
 

 </body> 