 press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Press releases  


     
 Press release 

 
 





  June 3,  2011</strong>  Judy Olson to Receive “Athena Lecturer” Award for Research Contributions to Computer Science</strong>    Irvine, Calif., June 3, 2011 - The Association for Computing Machinery’s Council on Women in Computing (ACM-W) will present Judy Olson, Bren Professor of Information and Computer Sciences at UC Irvine, the 2011-2012 Athena Lecturer award at a June 4 ceremony in San Jose, Calif.     The award, which celebrates women researchers who have made fundamental contributions to computer science, recognizes Olson for her internationally acclaimed research on how teams that collaborate from remote locations succeed or fail. “We have long known in computer science that if it doesn’t work for people, it doesn’t work - period,” Olson says. “I am happy to have the ACM recognize the important advances in the psychological and social aspects of computer use.”    Olson’s work combines computer science and the social sciences to develop a rigorous foundation for driving technical and social innovations, which can create widely effective, usable collaborative systems. Bridging computer science and psychology, Olson’s pioneering studies on interactive computer systems that enable long-distance collaboration have provided evidence and insight into what can be done to improve the quality of teamwork.     Her research has resulted in a relationship with physicians at Children’s Hospital of Orange County, who are practicing telemedicine. The doctors, who regularly use a combination of videoconferencing and robotics to treat patients in remote locations, are partnering with Olson to develop a deeper understanding of how these mediating technologies impact patient/doctor perceptions and interactions.      “Judy's work in telemedicine and in other environments with remote collaborators is absolutely critical for the modern world,” says Hal Stern, Ted and Janice Smith Family Foundation Dean of the Bren School. “Advances in communications technology have made it possible to build ‘virtual’ teams across the globe, and research about how to make such teams more effective is sure to have a significant impact.”     In her most cited paper, “Distance Matters,” Olson identifies four concepts that determine the success of distant collaboration projects. They include the characteristics of the people involved, as well as social factors like the readiness of co-workers to collaborate and share information.      An ACM Fellow, Olson joined the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at UC Irvine in 2008. She is professor emerita at the University of Michigan, where she previously held the Richard W. Pew Collegiate Chair of Human Computer Interaction, and was associate dean for academic affairs in the School of Information. Olson, with her husband and fellow Bren Professor Gary M. Olson, holds a Lifetime Achievement Award from the ACM’s Special Interest Group in Computer Human Interaction.    Olson is the sixth woman to earn the Athena Lecturer award, which includes a $10,000 honorarium provided by Google Inc. and the opportunity to present a lecture at an ACM event. Olson’s lecture will be delivered at the ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work in February 2012. The ACM is the world’s largest educational and scientific computing society, uniting computing educators, researchers and professionals to inspire dialogue, share resources and address the field’s challenges.    CONTACT:
Rizza Barnes
Director of Communications
Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
University of California, Irvine
949-824-1562
rizza.barnes@uci.edu   
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 