 press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Press releases  


     
 Press release 

 
 





  September 9,  2009</strong>  Carey, Li Awarded NSF Grant to Develop Technologies for Storing and Analyzing Semi-Structured Data</strong>   Grant part of $2.7 million grant across three University of California campuses   Michael Carey and Chen Li, professors of Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences, have been awarded a $1.8 million grant from the National Science Foundation’s Data-Intensive Computing Program.  The project entitled “ASTERIX: A Highly Scalable Parallel Platform for Semistructured Data Management and Analysis” will research and develop new technologies for storing and analyzing semi-structured data.  Semi-structured data is a type of data that does not conform with the formal structure of tables and data models associated with databases.  They do, however contain tags or other markers to separate semantic elements and hierarchies of records and fields within the data. The amount of semi-structured data is increasing rapidly as the Internet has allowed for information sets beyond traditional full-text documents and databases to exist.  “The evolution of the ‘human Web’, powered by HTML and HTTP, has revolutionized the way that people find information, buy things, communicate, and collaborate,” says Carey.  “Web services and semi-structured data formats are having a similar impact on the ‘machine Web’.”   Semi-structured data formats like XML (Extensible Markup Language) and JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) – sets of rules for encoding documents electronically – are enriching our ability to find and interchange information.  Industry-specific needs have created XML-based data exchange standards, XML backbones have gained adoption in support of service-oriented architectures and software-as-a-service initiatives.  Other semi-structured formats, like JSON, are playing similar roles for Web-based services, and XML is being increasingly used for its original purpose of semantic document markup.  Project ASTERIX will develop new technologies for storing, querying, analyzing, and mining the rapidly increasing quantity of such semi-structured data.   “Semi-structured data has been widely used in many popular Web services such as Google Map and eBay,” says Li.  The funds are a part of a larger $2.7 million grant to be distributed over three years across three UC campuses. Carey and Li will be collaborating with Yannis Papakonstantinou and Alin Deutsch of UC San Diego and Vassilis Tsotras of UC Riverside.  Previously, Carey and Li were awarded $132,000 in seed funding in support of ASTERIX from a UC Discovery Grant and eBay.  A Bren Professor in Information and Computer Sciences, Carey’s research interests are in database systems, information integration, service-oriented computing, middleware, distributed systems, and computer system performance evaluation.  Li's research interests are in the fields of databases and information systems, including text search, data cleansing, data integration, and distributed data systems.   
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 