 
	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
     
		News     
	         
		  SDCL team in data science hackathon  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on May 17, 2016 at 1:00 pm 				 
					
		 Thomas and Christian teamed up with undergraduate students Sreeja, Sid, and Chris to develop a tool that helps visualize mobility patterns of devices and apps on the city of New York. More about our project here: Tool wiki Tired happy faces after coding for 28 hours straight. 
     
    
         
		  Congratulations to Arturo Di Lecce!  
		 
					Posted by  lmartie  on April 28, 2016 at 5:30 pm 				 
					   
		 Arturo recently defended and passed his MS thesis in crowd development! 
     
    
         
		  Affinity diagram session!  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on March 15, 2016 at 9:01 pm 				 
					
		 We have just categorized a few dozen sketches produced by a crowd of designers. 
     
    
         
		  Lee was awarded the IBM fellowship  
		 
					Posted by  Consuelo Lopez  on March 11, 2016 at 1:51 pm 				 
					
		 Lee Martie (5th year Ph.D. student) was awarded the IBM fellowship. The IBM Ph.D. Fellowship Awards Program is an intensely competitive worldwide program, which honors exceptional Ph.D. students who have an interest in solving problems that are important to IBM and fundamental to innovation in many academic disciplines and areas of study (more information can […] 
     
    
         
		  Congratulations Dr. Gerald!  
		 
					Posted by  Consuelo Lopez  on March 6, 2016 at 2:58 pm 				 
					
		 Gerald Bortis defended and passed his PhD Thesis dissertation titled “PorchLight: A Tag-based Approach to Bug Triaging”. The defense took place last Friday and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Crista Lopes and James Jones. Congratulations Dr. Gerald! 
     
    
         
		  Congratulations, Sara!  
		 
					Posted by  Consuelo Lopez  on March 2, 2016 at 12:03 pm 				 
					
		 Sara Triplett defended and passed her MS Thesis today. The tile of her talk was “Design Workspaces: Preserving and Recovering Meaning in Groups of Sketches” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Marian Petre and James Jones. Congratulations Sara! 
     
    
         
		  Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams (again!)  
		 
					Posted by  Consuelo Lopez  on February 25, 2016 at 5:48 pm 				 
					
		 We redecorated the conference room! We have just categorized around 250 sketches the CrowdDesign team collected in their second and latest experiment. It took 2h for a crowd of five people to do the job! We all enjoyed pizza after the hard work. 
     
    
         
		  New Scholarship  
		 
					Posted by  Consuelo Lopez  on January 20, 2016 at 5:44 pm 				 
					
		 Congratulations to Consuelo López, who was recently granted the 2016 Miguel Velez scholarship. 
     
    
         
		  Congratulations, Lee Martie!  
		 
					Posted by  Consuelo Lopez  on January 20, 2016 at 5:43 pm 				 
					
		 Lee Martie defended and passed his PhD Topic Proposal on Tuesday. The tile of his talk was “Supporting Iterative Internet-Scale Code Search” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Cristina Lopes and James Jones. Congratulations Lee! 
     
    
         
		  SimSE  
		 
					Posted by  lmartie  on December 12, 2015 at 10:09 pm 				 
					   
		 A blast from the past. SimSE, developed by one of the very first graduate students of SDCL – Emily Navarro, continues to be popular. Check out some youtube videos of folks using it! 
     
    
    
		         
              
              Next Page »  
              
         
                    
     
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 