  Amadeus<body>
    Amadeus  
  
     Name:      
Amadeus Measurement-Driven Analysis and Feedback System
 
     Source:    
University of California, Irvine.  Arcadia Project.
 
     Brief description:  
The Amadeus measurement-driven analysis and feedback system
        provides infrastructure and services that automate the
        collection, analysis and visualization of software metrics.
        The metrics capture information on projects, processes,
        products, teams, and organizations based on a combination of a
        baseline metric set and optional user-supplied metrics.  A
        language-independent command and programmatic interface allows
        project users and tool builders to flexibly use such metrics on
        software projects.  Amadeus provides a low-entry barrier to
        measurement with dynamic, non-obtrusive, tailorable monitoring
        capabilities of processes, tools, and interactive user
        sessions.
 
     Evaluation against applicable general dimensions: 
 
     Availability: commercial/licensed/public domain    
Some experimental versions of new software measurement components 
	  will be available via anonymous ftp from UC Irvine.
        A commercial version of the Amadeus software measurement 
	  infrastructure is available from Amadeus
	Software Research, Inc. (amadeus-info@amadeus.com).
 
     Cost:  
There is no cost other than media charge for components from 
        UC Irvine.
 
     Degree of support/maturity/testing/usage:  
The experimental components from UC Irvine will be
        unsupported.  
        The commercial version has full support, maintenance, and
        upgrades.
 
     Speed:  
Uses TCP/IP for inter-machine communication.  Users can 
	specify whether measurement collection and analysis agents 
	execute asynchronously or synchronously.
 
     Computing platforms:  
Sun Sparcstations for UC Irvine components.
	The commercial version is available for all major Unix and VMS
	workstations.
 
     Language compatibilities:  
API for C and csh
 
     Footprint:  
TBS.
 
     Openness/integrability/source availability:  
Source code for some experimental versions of new software 
	  measurement components will be available.
        The commercial system version has an open architecture with a 
        full application programmer interface (API).  C and Csh 
        language bindings to the API are available.  Binary and object
        code licenses are available.
 
     Extensibility:  
The measurement capabilities are user-extensible and can incorporate
        foreign tools.
 
     Pedigree: ARPA developed?    
UC Irvine components are being developed under ARPA grant number 
        MDA972-91-J-1010.
        Commercial version is being funded from private (non-ARPA) sources.
   
     Contact person(s) 
  Professor Richard Selby 
Department of Information and Computer Science 
University of California 
Irvine, CA 92717 
selby@ics.uci.edu 
(714) 824-6326 
(714) 824-4056 - fax
 
 
     Pointers to literature, demos, etc.:  
Richard W. Selby, Adam A. Porter, Doug C. Schmidt and Jim
        Berney, ``Metric-Driven Analysis and Feedback Systems for
        Enabling Empirically Guided Software Development'', Proceedings
        of the Thirteenth International Conference on Software
        Engineering, Austin, TX, May 13-16, 1991, pp. 288-298.
   
   
  
 The Arcadia Project
&lt;arcadia-www@ics.uci.edu&gt;  
Last modified: Wed Nov 30 14:52:02 1994
 
</body> 