 eCACTI: An Enhanced Power Estimation Model for On-chip Caches<body>
 
 enhanced CACTI (eCACTI)  
  [ Home  |

 Technical report  |
 How-to FAQ  |
 Download eCACTI  ]
  
      eCACTI: An Enhanced Power Estimation Model
for On-chip Caches   

 Mahesh Mamidipaka and Nikil Dutt
 Center for Embedded Computer Systems (CECS) Technical Report TR-04-28, Sept. 2004.

   Abstract   There is a growing need for accurate power models at the higher
levels of design hierarchy. CACTI
is a micro-architecture level tool widely used
(i) to estimate power dissipation in caches and (ii) to determine
the cache configuration that best meets the desired optimization
criterion. However,
we observed several limitations in CACTI that lead to
inaccuracies in cache power estimates especially as we move to
deep sub-micron (DSM) technologies: a) lack of models to account for
leakage power, b) use of constant gate widths for most devices
irrespective of its capacitive load, and c) lack of models to
account for power dissipation in sub-blocks that are outside the time
critical path. As a result, the cache configuration determined by CACTI may not
be optimal because of these limitations. Our tool,     eCACTI    
(enhanced CACTI),
addresses these limitations in CACTI thereby improving the
accuracy of its power estimates. We validated   eCACTI  power estimates
against SPICE based simulations on industrial designs. Furthermore,
we show that for DSM technologies, CACTI does not generate
power optimal cache configuration, which highlights the need for
the enhancements we developed in   eCACTI  .
Finally, we demonstrate the use of   eCACTI   to study the effects of
(i) technology on cache leakage and total cache power,
(ii) dual-Vth optimization on sub-block and total cache leakage power,
(iii) effects of varying cache size, block size, and associativity
for DSM technologies.
 
  Technical report available in 
 ps 
or  pdf 
  eCACTI software download page 
     
  
 Copyright University of California, Irvine, 2004. 
For problems or questions regarding this web, contact  
 Mahesh Mamidipaka  . 
Last updated: 10/06/04. 
  
 
  </body> 