 <body>

 
 ONR-USC Collaborative Research 
on
Alternative ONR Process Architectures   Progress Report    *** Updated 16 Oct 1996 ***  
 Walt Scacchi 
ATRIUM Laboratory 
IOM Department 
University of Southern California 
Los Angeles, CA 90089-1421 USA 
scacchi@gilligan.usc.edu 
http://www.usc.edu/dept/ATRIUM   
September 1996
  
This presentation can be found on the WWW at the URL: 
http://www.usc.edu/dept/ATRIUM/ONR-brief-Sept96.html
  
 








 
  


 


 
 Overview 
 
 
  ONR Grants Management (GM) Process
	  Process capture and documentation
	  Process analysis
	  Process redesign
	    Wide-area process enactment environment (demo)
  Project research  risk areas
  Future directions and options
   

 
  

 

 
 Process capture and documentation 
 

  Acquire qualitative process information (who, what, when, how,
	how much, how long, etc.)
	   AS-IS  versions of

	  Pre-Award:
		 
		Postscript diagram , 
		 
		HTML  listing, or
		 
		Process dictionary  format.
	  Grant Award:
		 
		Postscript diagram ,
		 
		HTML  listing, or
		  
		Process dictionary  format.
	  Grant Administration:
		 
		Postscript diagram , 
		 
		HTML  listing, or
		 
		Process dictionary  format.
	  CloseOut: 
		 
		Postscript diagram , 
		 
		HTML  listing, or
		 
		Process dictionary  format.

	  
	captured and viewable as process decomposition diagrams (Postscript),
	HTML for browsing, or in PML (process dictionary definitions --
	recommended for technical specialists only)
	    Elicit understanding of current processes
	  Distributed across multiple, inconsistent documents
	  Refined from interviews with key personnel
	  Further refinement and validation by key process experts
	    Educate process owners in our methodology, and how to document processes
	in computer-readable form
	  Future activity: Choose next set of ONR processes for redesign
	     

 
  

 

 
 Process analysis 
 

  Examine organizational landscape and identify relevant issues and challenges
  Use knowledge-based tools/techniques for analysis
  Collectively select strategy for GM process redesign
	  ONR participation was essential and successful
	  Critical to identifying missing or overlooked GM steps
	(e.g., Make_Grant_Folder is first step of AS-IS Validate_PR_Package).
	  Opportunities for process streamlining have been identified
	by ONR participants.
	     

 
  
 Process redesign 
 

  Articulate redesign approach
	  Model, analyze, diagnose (measure), identify relevant redesign 
	hueristics, prioritize redesign alternatives, prototype and 
	demonstrate, transition
	    Identify high leverage opportunity areas, expected outcomes, potential
	problems
	  Follows below
	    Constrain redesign alternatives according to:
	  Do not increase any person's workload
	  Do not create new staff positions
	  Seek changes that are "self-motivating" or that enable
	organizational incentives.
	    Model, visualize, and prototype new process alternatives

   
 
  
 Process diagnosis and redesign alternatives for Grant Award 
    Diagnosis     Applicable Hueristics     Expected ROI     Manual step sequence  Consolidate and automate  Med-High    Linear step sequences  Identify parallelization opportunities  High    Many reviews steps  Joint reviews  High    Many data validation steps  Rule-based review system  Med-High    Many data validation steps  Push validation responsiblities upstream  Med-High    Manual assembly of compound documents  Rule-based document builder  Low-Med    Duplicating and circulating documents  Automate distribution and archiving  Med-Very High    Replace paper documents  Employ electronic proposals and grant documents  High-Very High    Islands of automation  Intranet with process support, data integration, and product navigation  Low-High    Wide-area workflow  Internet-based process enactment  Med-High    


 

 
  

 


 
 ONR Grants Management Process Transitions 
 Assign Priorities to Transitions 
 (1 = 30 days, 2 = 60 days, 3 = 90 days, 4 &gt; 90 days)
  
Consult AS-IS process decomposition diagrams for details
  


 Overall Suggestions for Pre-Award and Grant Award 
  Consult with O3 to (a) identify and capture any Pre-Award
	improvements they can provide. For example, can they characterize
	types or groups of pre-approved, never-approved, insufficient-funds
	proposals? Automated award notice distribution? Input from O8
	for not-approved proposals? Clarify responsibilities for
	who will verify or validate proposal funding and budget information?
  Develop strategy and plan for realizing "full" TO-BE vision.
	Initial version due 24 September 96.
  Need resolution and convergence of  electronic proposal 
	definition, design, implementation, and integration.
    
  Pre-Award  
    Evaluate_Proposal   (1a) : Update ONR Proposal Submission
	Guidelines on ONR WWW pages to solicit more complete proposal
	information (e.g., Identify BAA #, Certifications, Submittals).
	Consult Code 254 (Terry Young), ONR Webmaster (Code 92).
   Evaluate_Proposal   (1b) : Send Letter to Offeror (University
	Business Office) requesting additional or missing proposal 
	information; Mail returned to designated GS. 
   Approve_PR   (1c) : Determine when O3 can use daily releases
	or IF actions. (Consult O3)
   Approve_PR   (3) : Automate PR Assignment to GS. Assignments
	to occur before proposal arrival. Deletes later (AS-IS) process
	step for manual Assigning PR to GS. Consult Code 21, 24, 25, 92.
   Approve_PR   (2) : Automate "Proposal_Received" Notice
	in Code 25. Consult Tricia.
   Assemble_PR_Package   (1d) : Eliminate Hard Copy PRs.
	This  deletes  AS-IS steps for Print, Sort, Compare,
	and Carry Hard Copy Proposals.  
   O2 Handle_Approved_Proposal   (3) :
	Delete manual Assignment of PR to GS. Activity done earlier with
	automated support.
   Validate_PR_Package   (1e) : Delete Validate Hard Copy with 
	PR. Discuss and clarify validation and verification responsibilities 
	with O3 (already noted). Rename Verify_CAGE_SCCC_Codes to	
	Verify/Obtain_Codes.
   Obtain_Missing_Information   (1e) : Delete FAX_Request
	Missing Information, unless 1a and 1b fail.	
	Also, rename to Update_Missing_Data_Received.
   
  Grant_Award  
    Print_Sign_Document   (2) : Add Obligate Grant Data in STARS. 	
   Prepare_Deliver_Package_to_FM   (2) : Delete AS-IS steps for:
	Copy Cover Page, Copy FAD, Copy Signatures, Place on Pending Review
	Shelf, Log Data Sent to FM in INRIS, and Deliever Package to FM.
	Consult Codes 08, 21, 25, 92. 
   Prepare_Deliver_Package_to_FM   (2) : Delete
	Obligate Data in STARS  (moved up earlier in process).
   Distribution   (2) : Delete Pickup Document, Log Date
	Returned, Match File. 
   Distribution   (4) : Automate 100% Distribution 
	(by 31 March 97). This depends on availability of adequate
	ADP information infrastructure. Consult Codes 08, 24, 25, 92, DFAS,
	and selected Universities for pilot tests.
   Distribution   (4) : Need approval to forego File
	Hard Copy Documents. Consult Codes 08, 25, and OOCC.
   

 
 Overall suggestions for improvements 
in  Grant Adminstration  and  Close-Out  Processes 
  All improvements to Grant Administration and Close-Out are
priority "4" items, requiring more than 90 days to complete.
  ONR Field Operations  perform Grant/Contract Administration and
Grant/Contract Close-Out for ONR and other government agencies (e.g.,
Darpa, NASA), However, we only address improvements in ONR Grant
Administration and Close-Out at this time. Handling Contracts and
non-ONR grants is likely to benefit from the same kinds of improvements
identified here, but getting them implementing is a major challenge.
  Improvements in Grant Administration Functions were not specified
at this time, since these activities are demand-driven. Capturing these
processes requires further effort.
Nonetheless, the provision of an electronic
proposal and grant document folder was expected to help streamline
the efficiency and effectiveness of these ongoing
grant administration functions.
  Three transitions or transition events are needed to redesign
nearly all of Grant Administration and Close-Out. These are
          4a:  
       Provision of Electronic Grants Packages using INRIS . Scheduled
       for delivery by February 1997. This eliminates all tasks and
       actions involved in Grant Administration that receive, sort,
       distribute, and resolve problems with grants, except for the
       remaining need to handle new contractors, as they occur.
          4b:  
       Integration of CAMIS and INRIS . Scheduled for completion
       by March 1997. This streamlines away all tasks and actions that
       involve the manual transfer and re-entry of information between
       INRIS and CAMIS.
          4c:  
       Provision of an Electronic Proposal and Grants Documents Folder .
       Not yet scheduled. This represents a new technical capability
       that could be prototyped using USC's Distributed Hypertext (DHT)
       information infrastructure that could integrate INRIS, CAMIS,
       and other information systems together over a  Grants Management
       Intranet  for ONR.
           Develop strategy and plan for realizing "full" TO-BE vision.
        Need resolution and convergence of  electronic proposal
	and grant folder 
	definition, design, implementation, and integration.
	     
   

  
 Proposed redesign of ONR GM Processes 
 
   TO-BE  version of ONR GM processes for
	  Pre-Award:
		 
		Postscript diagram , 
		 
		HTML  listing, or
		 
		Process dictionary  format.
	  Grant Award:
		 
		Postscript diagram ,
		 
		HTML  listing, or
		  
		Process dictionary  format.
	  Grant-Admin:
		 
		Postscript diagram , 
		 
		HTML  listing, or
		 
		Process dictionary  format.

	  Close-Out:
		 
		Postscript diagram , 
		 
		HTML  listing, or
		 
		Process dictionary  format.

	  
		designed and presented as process decomposition diagrams.
  Note, in Grant-Award, if legal requirement for archiving
Hard-Copy documents can be waived or removed, then Grant-Award
process collapses to  three  steps (in contrast to 24 steps
in AS-IS version)! Similarly, in Grant Administration, adoption of
improvements with INRIS and its integration with CAMIS, Administration
Preparation is streamlined from 21 steps in the AS-IS to 1 step in the
TO-BE version!
   

 

  

 

 
 Dynamically process modeling and prototyping 
 

  Incrementally model and "enact" prototypes of process redesign alternatives
  Provide role-specific views of process task structure
  
Demonstration of as-is version of Grant Award process (shown at USC)
  Develop prototype transition strategy and reimplementation (next).
   

 
  

 


 
 Wide-area process enactment environment 
 

  New process markup language (PML) for modeling process architectures
  PML compiler (generates process decomposition diagrams
and WWW-based  process enactment automatically)
  Internet-based execution system
  WWW-browser as Graphic User Interface (GUI) 
	to process enactment environment
  Distributed hypertext-based object management system
  Integration mechanisms for incorporating new/legacy IT systems (INRIS, etc.)
   

 
  

 

 
 Future directions and options 
 

  Select, specify, and prototype GM redesign alternatives for Grants
Administration and Grant Close-Out.
  Prototype and review demonstration GM process using candidate "electronic
proposal" and "electronic proposal document folder".
  Begin process capture and redesign of other ONR designated processes.
  Add automated support for process execution monitoring and audit trails
  Add (automated) support for process improvement process, remote
analysis and simulation.
  Add on-demand process training mechanisms and content generation
  Integrate with OLE/ActiveX/ODBC, Java/JDBC, Oracle
  Extend PML to cover more complex conditions and responses
  Add support for automated process enactment guidance
  Add tools to facilitate capture and specification of processes in PML
  VRML-based GUI and process enactment
  Other training and transition support
   

 
  

 


</body> 