 terica kindred spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Terica Kindred spotlight 

 
 

  The Apprentice</strong>
 
 
  
Terica Kindred
 
 
 Although she's only 23, Bren School of ICS graduate Terica Kindred '03 has an impressive resume: Software engineer. Speaker. Author. Information technology consultant for Deloitte in Los Angeles.  
 One of Ebony Magazine's "Top 30 Under 30" young leaders of 2006. Founder and executive director of a nonprofit organization that helps minority students go from college to career.  
 Kindred credits much of her success to UCI’s SAGE Scholars Program, which gave her a chance to be a real-life apprentice.  
 “SAGE fine-tuned my ability to interact with business people,” she says. “There’s no college course for this kind of experience.” 
 Like Kindred, who grew up in South Central Los Angeles, SAGE Scholars are typically the first in their families to attend college and come from economically disadvantaged backgrounds. Through SAGE, companies offer students multi-year, paid internships related to their field of study as well as $4,000 scholarships to support their educational expenses. 
 
 Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.
 
 “You get a ton of practical experience. It helps with school, because you can see how your studies connect to the business world,” says Kindred, who worked as an intern for Conexant Systems in Newport Beach for three years while pursuing her bachelor’s degree in information and computer science. “I had a terrific mentor at Conexant who helped me sort through my career options.” 
 She also gained valuable experience and mentors through CAMP — the California Alliance for Minority Participation in Science, Engineering and Mathematics — a National Science Foundation program offered UC systemwide. CAMP aims to increase the quality and quantity of underrepresented students completing a bachelor's degree and continuing on to graduate school. 
 Since graduating, Kindred has worked as a consultant for Deloitte as well as health care and entertainment companies. She also serves on Deloitte’s diversity taskforce to recruit minority students. 
 “While visiting college career fairs, I noticed a lot of minority students didn’t look good on paper. They weren’t prepared for entry-level jobs.” 
 Kindred decided to help. She wrote a book called Plan 4 Success and started her own nonprofit company by the same name to help minority students enter the business world. 
 “We help identify what they want to do and what companies provide those opportunities, and we see what experience they need to become the ideal person for the job.” 
 Kindred leads by example. She’s investing in real estate while continuing her consulting work. She’s also writing a second book on career development for young professionals — offering her own sage advice. 
  –Kathryn Bold   


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 