 
	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                             
        	
		
		    
  
            
 
 
 
	 Calico 
	 ...an intuitive sketch-based design environment for use on touch-based devices... 
	  
	   
 
	 PorchLight 
	 ...a desktop bug tracker interface designed to support effective bug triaging... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Development 
	 ...a cloud IDE for building software with a crowd... 
	  
	   
 
	 CodeExchange 
	 ...supporting iterative internet-scale code search... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Debugging 
	 How hundreds of workers can help locate faults in software?  
	  
	   
 
	 CrowdDesign 
	 ...crowd sourced software designs [...] 
	  
	   
 

             
            
             
                  Welcome 			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design. 
		              
         
                
         
			 
            	 	
			 
     
         Jun 11  19  
          HCIC 2011                     
     

				
     
         Nick Mangano attended  HCIC 2011  this past week, learning more about the HCI community and its research methods in an intimate setting. 
        
           Posted in    Travel   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on HCIC 2011   
         
     
  												  
     
         Jun 11  12  
          Graduates!                     
     

				
     
         Congratulations to  Nilmax Moura  (M.S.), Robert Simpson (B.S.), and Danielle Song (B.S.).  We will miss their contributions and presence in our lab! 
               
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Graduates!   
         
     
  												  
     
         Jun 11  10  
          Brazilian collaborators                     
     

				
     
         Claudia Werner and Chessman Correa from UFRJ and Leo Murta from UFF visited us for a day on their way to South Korea. 
   
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Brazilian collaborators   
         
     
  												  
     
         Apr 11  22  
          ARCS dinner                     
     

				
     
         Nick Mangano presents  Calico  at the annual celebration of  ARCS scholarship  recipients. Nick is the third SDCL member to receive an ARCS scholarship. 
   
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on ARCS dinner   
         
     
  												  
     
         Apr 11  18  
          Microsoft SEIF Award                     
     

				
     
         We are proud to announce that Microsoft has awarded the SDCL a Microsoft  Software Engineering Innovation Foundation Award  in support of our work on  Calico . 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          No Comments  
         
     
  												  
     
         Apr 11  18  
          Welcome Lee Martie                     
     

				
     
         We are very excited to welcome  Lee Martie  to the laboratory. He will be joining us this Fall from the  Design Intelligence Laboratory  at Georgia Tech, where he worked on the  GAIA  project. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          No Comments  
         
     
  												  
     
         Apr 11  16  
          ICSE 2011                     
     

				
     
         Four members of the SDCL, Nick Mangano, Nicolas Lopez, Gerald Bortis, and André van der Hoek, will attend  ICSE 2011 , to present our work on  Calico , the  Code Orb , and  TeamBugs . 
        
           Posted in    Travel   by  andre .
          No Comments  
         
     
  												 	    
         
          « Previous Page  
          
          
     
    
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			      
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 