 Dissertation Organization 
                  Next:   References 
 Up:   Introduction 
  Previous:   Dissertation Contributions 
  
   Dissertation Organization  
 
The rest of this dissertation is organized as follows:
In Chapter Two we present background information in the
form of a brief historical perspective of thirty years
of related software engineering research.
Specifically, Chapter Two covers areas of software
visualization, hypertext and hypermedia, object-oriented
methods, and AI inference diagrams.  Chapter Three
discusses software uncertainty in detail, including 
sources of uncertainty and uncertainty in development
phases.
In Chapter Four we present an uncertainty modeling
technique called Bayesian Belief Networks and justify
its applicability to software engineering situations.
Several examples of Bayesian networks are included.
Chapter Five describes the architecture and components
of the CEquencer system, selected as case study for
this dissertation.  In Chapter Six we present results
and impressions from our study of uncertainty modeling
at Beckman.  Chapter Seven describes three specific
applications of Bayesian networks in practice as well
as related work in uncertainty modeling.  Finally,
Chapter Eight presents conclusions and future work.
  
In conclusion of the introduction, we wish to point out
that uncertainty abounds not only in software development
but also in most engineering and scientific pursuits
as well as many everyday situations (For uncertainty in
everyday situations see, for example, Stefik [ Ste95 ],
pp. 460.).  Detailed exploration of uncertainty in general
is, therefore, beyond the scope of this dissertation.
Nevertheless, we hope that the maxims, techniques, tools,
and results described here will help identify research
opportunities as well as provide a solid foundation for
future work in software uncertainty modeling.  We
encourage readers to consider occurrences and consequences
of uncertainty in their own domains of interest and expertise.
Our future plans include additional modeling of software
uncertainties at Beckman as well as exploring other domains
where uncertainty modeling may be useful.  We are particularly
interested in ``Bayesian Internets,'' i.e., the modeling of
information retrieval uncertainties on the Internet and WWW.
  
                    Next:   References 
 Up:   Introduction 
  Previous:   Dissertation Contributions 
   
 Hadar Ziv  
Fri Jun 20 16:22:31 PDT 1997 
 
</body> 