 Theory Seminar, 23 Jan 2004<body>
    

 ICS 269, Winter 2004: Theory Seminar 

  23 Jan 2004: 
Anonymous Credentials with Biometrically-Enforced Non-Transferability
 
Sara Miner More, UCSD
 
 
Often, to gain access to a resource, an individual must present some
sort
of credential.  If the credential includes identifying information
about
the individual, the organization controlling the resource can collect
information about his actions.  In the digital world in particular,
this
collection requires very little effort.  The compiled information can
then
be shared with or even sold to another organization, without the
individual's knowledge or consent.

  
To protect an individual's privacy in the digital world,
cryptographers
have suggested anonymous credentials, which allow an individual to
prove
that he possesses a particular right without revealing his identity.
However, anonymous credentials based on cryptography alone are
inherently
transferable -- an individual can simply give a copy of his
cryptographic
key to a friend.  In applications where non-transferability is
important,
biometric data, such as a fingerprint or retina scan, can be used to
link
a credential with a particular individual, but often at the cost of
anonymity.  For example, if the individual's fingerprint is included
as
part of his credential, the organization controlling a resource may
identify him when he requests access.

  
Perhaps surprisingly, it is possible to design non-transferable
credentials which retain anonymity.  In this talk, we describe a
model and
protocol for secure digital credentials which have both of these
properties.  Our model uses tamper-resistant hardware to combine
cryptographic techniques with biometric-based credentials.
Specifically,
a user can prove that he is in fact an individual to whom a
credential was
issued, without revealing any additional information.  Furthermore,
two
instances of credential displays by the same individual are
unlinkable.
Additionally, we will describe a mechanism which allows such
credentials
to be revoked by the issuing party, and discuss potential extensions
to
the system.

  
This talk describes joint work with Russell Impagliazzo (UCSD) which
appeared in the 2003 ACM Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic
Society.

 </body> 