 Untitled<body>

       
           Application 
              Group communication occurs in many different settings: from 
            low-level network multicasting to conferencing and other groupware 
            applications. In particular, group communication is often crucial 
            in battlefield and law enforcement operations. Regardless of the 
            environment, security services are necessary to provide communication 
            privacy and integrity. These are not possible without secure and 
            efficient key distribution, authentication and other security mechanisms. 
             
                Motivation   While peer-to-peer security is a well-developed field, secure 
            group communication remains relatively unexplored. The prime motivation 
            for CLIQUES is the lack of a general-purpose group security solution 
            that satisfies the requirements of modern group communication security. 
             
                Goal   The primary goal of the CLIQUES project is to design a suite 
            of highly secure key distribution, authentication and other auxiliary 
            protocols for group communication. These protocols will be subsequently 
            realized in a general-purpose CLIQUES toolkit which, additionally, 
            will address the challenges of communication latency and state. 
            The resulting technology will be demonstrated in different application 
            domains.  
                Group Setting 
              CLIQUES supports dynamic group membership in response to 
            the actual requirements of current and emerging group-oriented applications 
            for dynamic peer group. Group membership operations at the granularity 
            of individual members and entire sub-groups is addressed in a secure 
            and efficient manner. Dynamic peer groups are relatively small, 
            non-hierarchical groups typically geared for replication or collaborative 
            applications. CLIQUES favors neither a specific network topology 
            not a specific communication paradigm.  
                Security   CLIQUES supports highly secure operation. Its protocols are 
            the group extensions of the well-known Diffie-Hellman key exchange. 
            CLIQUES provides authenticated contributory key agreement which 
            guarantees key independence, key confirmation, perfect forward secrecy, 
            and resistance to known key attacks. (For the definition of the 
            above, the reader is referred to  Handbook
            of Applied Cryptogrphy .)  
              
         
</body> 