 Chimera 2.0 Tutorial: Making Anchors on Images<body>
 

 Making Anchors on Images and connecting them to Links 

   
You can make anchors on the two images you have downloaded and connect them to
an active link.
You will need to make sure you have the following items in place:
 

   The Chimera Website running. (It should have the web bill_web.)
       The Chimera Server running. (It should be connected to bill_web
	and the places_to_go link should be selected as the active link.)
       Jimage running. (It should be connected to the Chimera Server and
	it should be displaying bill.gif and earthrise.gif.)

   Making Anchors on the two Images 

 
To create an anchor around bill, use the left mouse button 
and drag across an area in the bill image. The rectangular box drawn on screen
is the anchor.
 

   

  Now create an anchor around the earth in the earthrise image.  
 

   


 Connecting the Anchors to the Active Link 

  Jimage allows you to add anchors to the Active Link.  The Active
Link is selected through the Chimera Server, and has been selected to be
places_to_go from  
Hooking up the Chimera Server to a Chimera Website and Creating a Link
 .
 

   

   Add the anchor in the bill image to the Active Link 
(places_to_go) by clicking the 
right mouse button while the mouse is within the anchor.  A pop-up
menu will appear.  Select
the Add Anchor to Link command from the menu.
 

  Add the anchor in the earthrise image to
the Active Link (places_to_go) by clicking the 
right mouse button while the mouse is within the anchor and selecting
the Add Anchor to Link command from the pop-up menu.
 

   You now have two images that are linked by Chimera. Note: If you 
go to the Chimera Server and logout from the bill_web and log into 
the flight_web, your anchors will disappear from the images.  
The reason for this is that
flight_web has no information saying that the anchors exist on the images.
This information is stored on Chimera, not the image.  The Jimage
application presents the anchors on the images.
 

 Other Commands 

 
The pop-up menu contains two other commands which may be applied to the 
anchor:
 

   Remove anchor from Link which removes the anchor from the Active
	Link.
       Delete Anchor which deletes the anchor.
  </body> 