 Submitting Homework using Checkmate<body>

 
 Submitting Homework Using Checkmate 
 
  




        Submiting Completed Programming Assignments  
 
You will submit programming assignments and other work electronically, via a
  special system called  Checkmate .
This same system also allows you to check the status of your programming
   assignment submissions.
But, it does not allow you download work that you submitted, so make sure to
  archive a copy of all the work that you submit.
 
To use Checkmate, you must first activate your  UCInetID .
If you have not already done so,
   activate  it now.
  
Once you have an activated UCInetID, you need to 
   Login to Checkmate  
  and enroll yourself in my appropriate course (you do this only once,
  at the start of the quarter).
The rest of this handout shows you how.

  This handout was last updated in Spring 2013, showing a student setting
    up checkmate for ICS-31.
    Generally, Checkmate is a stable system that doesn't change much.
    When you follow these instructions, make sure that you specify the correct
     quarter  and  course .
 

  You will first see the UCInetID verification page
 
  
     
      &amp;nbsp  
 
 
Enter your  UCInetID  and  Password  on this page.
You will next see the following page, which includes your
  Name (UCInetID): here it shows my name as  Peter Anteater 
  and my UCInetID as  (=31Test) ; I had to create this bogus
  information because I am not a student at UCI.
  
  
     
      &amp;nbsp  
 
 
Ensure that  Choose Quarter  is the correct quarter (change it with the
  pulldown menu and click the  Go  button if necessary).
Now you should click on the  Course Listing  link to enroll yourself
  in ICS-31 (or whatever course you are in).
You will next see a page similar to the following one (except that it
  will likely have more courses and instructors using checkmate this quarter).
  
  
     
      &amp;nbsp  
 
 
Find the correct  Course  and  Instructor(s)  entry.
Note that (a) sometimes your instructor will teach more than one course during
  a quarter and(b) sometimes more than one instructor will teach a course with
  the same number; so examine this information careful.
Once you have located your course, click the  Go  button to the left of 
  it.
One of my courses is listed for the Spring 2013 as  36540: I&amp;C SCI 31 )
  followed by my name.
You will next see a confirmation page similar to the following one.
  
  
     
      &amp;nbsp  
 
 
Assuming that you are enrolling in a course for the first time, Checkmate will
  show you as "not yet listed" for this course.
Click the  List me for this course  button.
You will then be directed to the  Assignments  page similar to the
  following one.
  
  
     
      &amp;nbsp  
 
 
This page shows only  Assignment #0  visible; generally each assignment
  becomes visible starting on the day that I officially assign it.
It shows  Nothing submitted  in a gray background, meaning that you have
  not yet submitted any parts of this assignment (there are two).
Note that we will start working on this assignment during our second lab.
  
Let's now examine how to see the details of this assignment and submit one
  part of it (the other part is submitted similarly).
Click the  Details/Submit  button under  Assignment #0  and you
  will see a page similar to the following one.
  
  
     
      &amp;nbsp  
 
 
So, this assignment ( #0 ) has two parts
    ( 1  and  2 ): each allows 
     Exactly 1  file (see  Quantity ) to be submitted;
    for part  1 it must be a file named  demo.py ; and
    for part  2 it must be a file named  collatzy.py 
    (see  Allowable file names(s): ).
  
Each part is first described by some text.
Each part also has a  Choose File  button that you can use to find the
  file that you want to submit, and a  Submit File(s)  button
  to do that submission.
If you click  Choose File  and then double-click the  wrong  named
  file (as illustrated below)
  
  
     
      &amp;nbsp  
 
 
and then click the  Submit File(s)  button, you will see a page with
  the following error message.
  
  
     
      &amp;nbsp  
 
 
at which time you can click the  Return to Assignment Details  button
  to try again.
If you click  Choose File  and then double-click the  correct  
  named file, you will see a page with the following confirmation message
  (as illustrated below).
  
  
     
      &amp;nbsp  
 
 
At this point, if you click the  Return to Assignment Details  button,
  you will see a page with the following status.
  
  
     
      &amp;nbsp  
 
 
For this  Assignment ,  Requirements are not yet met  in a red
  background,appears because only one of the two required parts of this
  programming assignment have been submitted.
For  Part #1 , the  Choose File  and  Submit File(s)  buttons
  have been replaced with information about the file already submitted and
  a  Remove File  button, in case you want to remove the current submission
  and resubmit a version of this file: if you remove the current file, the
   Choose File  and  Submit File(s)  buttons will reappear.
You may remove/submit files as many times as you want.
Although Checkmate saves all your submissions (and  we can see all of them),
  we grade only the final submission that you make.
  
After submitting both files, Checkmate will display the page for this
  assignment as follows.
  
  
     
      &amp;nbsp  
 
 
The text  Requirements are met  in a green background, appears because all
  parts for this assignment have now been successfully submitted.
Of course, this says nothing about the quality or correctness of the
  submission; it pertains only to the requirement that all needed files, with
   the correct names, were submitted.
Again, by using the  Remove File  buttons you can remove files that you
  submitted early, so that your resubmit any/all parts.
These files are never really removed from the dropoff system, but instead are
  put in a special "old submission" area that Checkmate maintains.
Finally, if you return to the  Course Page , which shows summary
  information about each assignment, you will see a page similar to the
  following one.
  
  
     
      &amp;nbsp  
 
 
This completes our tour of the Checkmate system.
You can practice with this system by yourself; we will start using it for real
  during our first lab meeting.
  
    
  </body> 