 Graph Algorithms<body>
 Computer Science 163, Spring 2012: 
Graph Algorithms 

  General Course Information 

 Coursework will consist of weekly homeworks, a midterm, and a
comprehensive final exam. Group work on homeworks is permitted;
each student should turn in his or her own copy of the homeworks. 

 The text we will be using is   Graph
Algorithms  , a collection of readings compiled from Wikipedia. 

 The course meets Tuesdays and Thursdays, 12:30 - 1:50
in  SSL 290 .
The T.A. is  Paweł
Pszona  (ppszona@ics.uci.edu); his office hours are Tuesdays 2:00-4:00
and Wednesdays 12:00-2:00 in Bren Hall room 4219. Homeworks will be
returned during T.A. office hours. We also have Cesar Ghali as a reader.
Instructor office hours will be Thursdays 2:00-3:00 or by appointment. 

 The final grade will be formed by combining the numerical scores from
the homeworks (20%), midterm (35%), and final (45%). 

 Tentative Schedule of Topics 
  Week 1.  Web crawler  case study.  DFS ,  BFS ,  Tarjan's
algorithm  for  strongly connected
components .  PageRank
algorithm .  Representation of graphs .  Homework 1, due Thursday, April 12  --  Solutions . 
 Week 2.  Software call graph  visualization case study.  DAGs ,
 topological
ordering ,  transitive
closure , and  transitive
reduction .  Layered
graph drawing  and the  Coffman-Graham algorithm .  Whiteboard images from April 10. 
 Whiteboard images from April 12.   Homework 2, due Thursday, April 19  --  Solutions . 
 Week 3.
 Road map path planning  case study.
 Shortest paths ,
 relaxation algorithms ,
 Dijkstra's algorithm ,
 Bellman-Ford algorithm ,
 Johnson's algorithm ,
 A*
algorithm ,
 15-puzzle example ,
 Euclidean
distance  based distance estimation,
 landmark-based distance estimation .  Whiteboard images from April 17. 
 Whiteboard images from April 19.   Homework 3, due Thursday, April 26  --  Solutions . 
 Week 4.  Maze 
and  river network simulation via invasion percolation  case
study.  Minimum
spanning trees ,  Prim-Dijkstra-Jarnik
algorithm ,  Boruvka's
algorithm ,  Kruskal's
algorithm .  Preference
voting case study  and
the  widest
path problem .  Whiteboard images from April 24. 
 Whiteboard images from April 26.   Homework 4, due Thursday, May 3  --  Solutions . 
 Week 5. Transportation scheduling case study.
 Euler tours .
Introduction to
 the travelling salesman problem .  Whiteboard images from May 1.  
  Midterm Thursday, May 3  --  Solutions  
 Week 6.  Medical
school residency assignment  case study.  Matchings ,  stable
marriage ,  Gale-Shipley
algorithm for stable marriage .  Bipartite
graphs ,  Hopcroft-Karp
algorithm for bipartite matching ,
 König's theorem ,
 partition into a minimum number of rectangles .  Whiteboard images from May 8. 
 Whiteboard images from May 10.   Homework 5, due Thursday, May 17  --  Solutions . 
 Week 7.  exponential-time dynamic programming for the traveling salesman problem ,
 approximation algorithms and the approximation ratio ,
 MST-doubling
heuristic ,
 Christofides' heuristic .  Baseball
elimination  case study.  Maximum flow
problem ,  minimum cut
problem ,  max-flow
min-cut theorem ,  formulating maximum matching as a flow problem .  Augmenting
path (Ford-Fulkerson) algorithm .  Whiteboard images from May 15. 
 Whiteboard images from May 17.   Homework 6, due Thursday, May 24  --  Solutions . 
 Week 8.  Social network analysis  case study.  Cliques ,  Moon-Moser
bound on maximal cliques ,  Bron-Kerbosch
algorithm . 
Social network
properties:  sparsity ,  small
world
property ,  power
laws .  Barabási-Albert model ,
 clustering
coefficient ,  h-index
based dynamic triangle counting algorithm .  Whiteboard images from May 22. 
 Whiteboard images from May 24.   Homework 7, due Thursday, May 31  --  Solutions . 
 Week 9. Memorial day holiday Monday.  Register allocation  case study.
 Graph coloring ,
 greedy coloring ,
 interval graphs ,
and  perfect graphs .  Chordal graphs 
and
using  Lexicographic
breadth-first search  to find an elimination ordering.  Planar
graphs ; review of planarity-related topics from earlier weeks (graph
drawing, road maps, invasion percolation via minimum spanning trees of
grid graphs, graph coloring and the four-color theorem).  Duality ,
duality of  Euler
tours  and  bipartiteness ,
 Euler's formula ,
greedy 6-coloring, Boruvka in linear time,
 Planarity testing .  Whiteboard images from May 29. 
 Whiteboard images from May 31.   Homework 8, due Thursday, June 8  --  Solutions . 
 Week 10. Guest lecture by Mike Goodrich:  Fáry's theorem  and
 Schnyder's
straight-line embedding algorithm . 
Review session Thursday led by T.A. Paweł Pszona. 
  Final exam .
   Material from Previous Course Offerings 

   Syllabus  from Spring 2011. 
  Syllabus  from Spring 2010. 
  Syllabus  from Spring 2006. 
  Syllabus  and  final exam  from Spring 2002. 
  Syllabus ,  midterm , and  final exam  from Winter 1994. 
 </body> 