 ICS 10 References<body>
 ICS 10 • David G. Kay • UC Irvine 
 Supplementary References on Course Topics 
 These links and books explain or illustrate some of the topics we've covered in lecture, typically in more detail than we've seen in class. They're supplementary, not assigned, unless we say otherwise. 
  Reference pages for Snap ( snap.berkeley.edu ), the older BYOB ( byob.berkeley.edu ) and the original Scratch ( scratch.mit.edu ) 
   Other UCI computing courses (with no prerequisites or just ICS 10)
      ICS 3, Internet Technologies and their Social Impact 
       ICS 4, Human Factors for the Web 
       ICS 5, Global Disruption and Information Technology 
       ICS 7, Modern Computational Tools  
       ICS 8, Practical Computer Security 
       ICS 11, The Internet and Public Policy 
       ICS 31, Introduction to Programming 
       ICS 60, Computer Games and Society 
       ICS 61, Game Systems and Design 
       ICS 62, Game Technologies and Interactive Media 
       ICS 105, Digital Information Systems 
       Informatics 12, Barter to Bitcoin: Society, Technology, and the Future of Money 
       Informatics 131, Human Computer Interaction 
       Informatics 161, Social Analysis of Computerization 
       Informatics 171, Introduction to Medical Informatics 
      
   Algorithms and Efficiency 
     Sorting Out Sorting , the video about different sorting algorithms. 
    Data Representation (bits and bytes) 
     Tables of decimal, binary, hexadecimal, and
    ASCII values: a  simple ASCII table  with 8-bit codes, decimal, octal, and hexadecimal; a  compact ASCII table . The  Unicode standard  handles  most of the world's writing systems ; check out  Ethiopic  (from Africa),  Devangari  (from India),  Chinese  (from Asia),  Cherokee  (from North America),  Armenian  (from Europe), or  Linear B  (from ancient Greece).  
    Human-Computer Interaction
      Jakob Nielsen's  Top Ten Mistakes in Web Design  
         Caring for Your Wrists ,
        by TidBITS Publishing.  A two-page poster with good advice on avoiding repetitive
        stress injuries.   
         Typographic Design for Computerized Text ,
        by David G. Kay.  Two pages on the basic principles of typographic readability.  
        Supplementary references on HCI  from Informatics 131, including some good videos. 
        Absolute Powerpoint  by Ian Parker, a discussion of how PowerPoint interferes with effective information presentation. 
      
    
</body> 