    Encryption 

 In this assignment you will learn how to hide your words and
files, in the form of packets, from those prying eyes and ears of
Eve.  To do this you will be using  pretty good privacy (PGP)  to encrypt and/or sign
the email correspondences with 
 your Class Reader, Patrick Flynn .
  As we've gone over in class, encryption is the process of
securing communication and doing so involves just a few easy steps.
 
     Instructions  
 The first step is to determine the  operating system (OS)  that you will be using.
Once you've completed that difficult task, it's on to using
Thunderbird to encrypt your emails. You can of course use other
clients to encrypt your mail, in which case, you may ignore the steps
described below. The steps below assume that you are using Thunderbird.

 
     Thunderbird  

 
 Thunderbird  will 
allow you (with a bit of
tinkering) to "securely" send emails, through the use of an
encryption algorithm, to your friend "Bob." For this assignment, 
 your Class Reader, Patrick Flynn ,
will be the recipient, of course.
 
   Step 1:  Download  Thunderbird  and install it.
To configure Thunderbird for your email service, 
follow the appropriate instructions below (or use those for your
email provider):

  
 
Gmail Thunderbird setup instructions 
 
 
 
UCI Thunderbird setup instructions 
 
 
 ICS
Thunderbird setup instructions .

     Step 2:  Download a PGP program.
   Windows Users:  Download  Gpg4win .
   Mac Users:  Download  Mac GPG 

     Step 3:  
   Windows Users:  Follow the on screen instructions for
installing Gpg4win.  When the "Choose Components" box shows up, all
you need to select is  GnuPG  and  GPA .  Optionally, you
can select the manuals at the bottom if you want to read more about
encryption or keep them for future reference.  Remember the location
you install GPG in as you will need it shortly.
     
  
     Mac Users:  Install Mac GPG.

       Step 4:  Download the  Enigmail  extension for Thunderbird and save it
somewhere.
   Step 5:  Once you've downloaded Enigmail, in
Thunderbird open Tools -&gt; Add-ons -&gt; Install, and then choose
the Enigmail extension file.
   Step 6:  When you've restarted Thunderbird with
Enigmail installed, you will see an OpenPGP menu item. Open it and go
to Preferences. There you'll find a dialog to point to your GnuPGP
binary. Click Browse. On my machine, GPG was installed under Program
Files\GNU\GnuPG\gpg2.exe.  For Mac, it's most likely in
/usr/local/bin/gpg.  In order for other people to send you encrypted
messages, they will need your public key.  There are a number of  keyservers  which host such public keys, but for
our purposes we will be using pgp.mit.edu.  Go to the
 Keyserver  tab and make sure pgp.mit.edu is listed in the
dialogue box.  If you don't see a  Keyserver  tab, click on
 Expert Settings .

   Step 7:  Now you'll need to generate your
public/private key pair. From the OpenPGP menu item, choose Key
Management. From the Generate menu, choose New Key Pair. Choose the
email address you want to create a key for, and set a passphrase. You
can set the expiration term for your key or set it to never expire,
it's your choice. Hit the "Generate Key" button, and relax - it can
take a few minutes.
   Step 8:  When it's done, you have the chance to
generate a "revocation certificate." This certificate can invalidate
your public key just in case your private key is ever compromised. Go
ahead and get your revocation certificate and save it.
   Step 9:  Publish your key by selecting it in the key
management window, clicking the  Keyserver  tab and selecting
 Upload Public Keys .
       Sending Encrypted/Signed Emails  

 Now that you've followed these instructions,
it's time to let 
 your Class Reader, Patrick Flynn ,
know that you are capable of sending encrypted messages.
Of course, this process should be done from your email account
for which the public key is published. 
 
   Step 1:  Before you can send an encrypted message to 
 your Class Reader, Patrick Flynn ,
you must obtain his public key.  To get this, open the Key
Management window, click Keyserver, and select  Search for
Keys .  Type in his email address 
(pflynn@ics.uci.edu) then click search. You will find his public key there,
import it. Just to make sure, his public key id is 82483CCA; you
can check it out if there are duplicated names.
You can also find his PGP public key from
the web site for
 your Class Reader, Patrick Flynn .
   Step 2:  Compose an email. Just to avoid confusion,
here is the format of the email you will have to make. 
  Make the title as Homework8
  For the content, please wish 
Patrick a great new year, 
and include your name and student ID as it appears in the class roster.

     Step 3:  Click the OpenPGP tab, and select both
 Encrypt  and  Sign  message.
   Step 4:  Click Send. You will then be prompted to
select the recipient's key. Do so, and click OK.  You may be prompted
with questions about sending in plaintext or HTML, choose plaintext.
   Step 5:  You're done!  
Now you know how to send encrypted messages.
   
This page is derived from an assignment by Chris Bronk at Rice
University.
 