 Fourth Homework<body>
  
 
          
 
 This assignment is due on Friday, January
31.      
 
  (a)  If you don't have much experience
coding dynamically allocated, linked structures, you might want to postpone
this part of the assignment until after Tuesday's lecture, proceeding
straight on to part  (b)  now.  
 
 In the Goodrich and Tamassia book, you should
look closely at problems R-4.1 through R-4.7 and know how to do them.  We're
not going to ask you to write down and turn in the answers, but do be sure
you know what's going on here; something similar might show up on an
exam.  
 
 Likewise, you should understand the concepts
behind P-4.3 through P-4.7.  Again, we aren't asking you to turn anything
in for this (so you can spend your time on the rest of this assignment)
and for now we're not expecting you to be able to do these perfectly
from memory, but you should understand the concepts and be able to apply
them given some hints, reference points, or context.  
 
  (b)   Look at Alex Thornton's Project
#3 from ICS 22, available on the web at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~thornton/ics22/LabManual/Scenes/   
.   
 
  (b.1)   Code the problem as specified.
 First, download the file that contains the skeleton of the program; the
Java files for the classes you will write (MenuItem, Menu, Order, Table,
and Restaurant) contain good advice and detailed specifications of the methods
you'll need to code.  
 
  (b.2)   Here are a few questions about
this problem and its implementation.  Answer them briefly in a Word (or
plain text) document:  
  
 The Menu and Order classes allow you to assume
that they will never contain more than 1000 items.  Why?  What would you
have to do differently if you weren't allowed to make those assumptions?  
   
 What parts of your program (which fields and
methods in which classes) would have to change if restaurants were allowed
to add and remove tables (dynamically, during the time they're serving)?  
   
 There are three multiple-valued structures
in this program:  the collection of Tables in the Restaurant, the collection
of MenuItems in an order, and the collection of MenuItems on the Restaurant's
Menu.  Probably you implemented all of them as unordered arrays.  Which
one of them is the best candidate to be implemented in one of the other
multiple-valued structures we have discussed (ordered array, linked list,
binary search tree, hash table)?  Which alternative would you choose, and
why?  (There may be no single, obvious, compelling answer to this.  Just
think of how the restaurant's business might change over time, or how
the technology used might change, and think about which re-implementation
might plausibly provide the greatest benefit.)  
   
 (extra credit)  What's the pun behind
Chez Quis, the name of the restaurant in Alex's example? Can you come
up with a funnier one?  
  
  What to turn in:     
 
 For part  (b) , turn in via Checkmate:  
  
 your five Java files  
   
 your test files, both the code files and the
"restaurant info" files  
   
 a Word document describing how to run your
test cases  
   
 a Word document answering the questions posed
above  
    
 Written by David G. Kay, Winter 2003 to build
on "Scenes from an Italian Restaurant," an ICS 22 lab by Alex
Thornton.  
  
 
  
  
  David G. Kay ,
 406B Computer Science
   University of California, Irvine 
   Irvine, CA  92697-3425  
 --     (949) 824-5072   
 --  Fax    (949) 824-4056   
 --  Email   
     kay@uci.edu 
    

 
 Friday, January 24, 2003 -- 4:48 PM  
</body> 