 Bay Area Roundtable<body>

 
  

 Bay Area Roundtable (BART) 

 Bay Area Roundtable (BART)  meetings are organized into topical
series and are geared toward technical practitioners.  A
typical meeting format consists of presentations by
researchers, experts, and/or practitioners on the meeting topic, followed by
discussion.  A 30 minute networking period precedes each
meeting. 
 
Previous topics have included 
the Scaling for the Internet, Software Architecture, World Wide Web,
Distributed Coordination and Communication Technology,
Internet Search Engine Technology, 
Design Guidelines for the World Wide Web, 
Groupware and Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW), 
Software Process and High Assurance Software,  
Quality and Testing, 
Reuse and Reengineering, 
User Interfaces, 
and Event-based Control and Integration Mechanisms.  
  

BART meetings are held in Palo Alto from 9:30 am to 12:00 pm on the
second Friday of each month (except for holidays) and have an average
attendance of 30.  

   Meeting Flyers  
When a new series is launched, a 


flyer 
announcing the topic and schedule of meetings is distributed.  
Approximately two weeks prior to each meeting, a meeting flyer
providing details  on the individual
meeting topic as well as logistical information is circulated.

 
Meeting flyers are also available on the 
 
IRUS schedule of events. 

   IRUS Mailing Lists 
To receive flyers directly, you can be added to the 
 
IRUS electronic or postal mailing lists. 
 
 
   Bay Area Leadership Group  

The Bay Area Leadership Group, an advisory committee
consisting of leaders in the Bay Area software community and IRUS
faculty, meets bi-monthly to provide guidance and strategic direction for
the Bay Area Roundtable series.  This group selects a topic
and designs a roundtable series by choosing a concentration
area and volunteer coordinator for each meeting.
 
 Back to the IRUS home page  
   
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science   
University of California, Irvine  
Irvine,  CA 92697-3425
 
</body> 