 
	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                             
        	
		
		    
  
            
 
 
 
	 Calico 
	 ...an intuitive sketch-based design environment for use on touch-based devices... 
	  
	   
 
	 PorchLight 
	 ...a desktop bug tracker interface designed to support effective bug triaging... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Development 
	 ...a cloud IDE for building software with a crowd... 
	  
	   
 
	 CodeExchange 
	 ...supporting iterative internet-scale code search... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Debugging 
	 How hundreds of workers can help locate faults in software?  
	  
	   
 
	 CrowdDesign 
	 ...crowd sourced software designs [...] 
	  
	   
 

             
            
             
                  Welcome 			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design. 
		              
         
                
         
			 
            	 	
			 
     
         Oct 14  25  
          PLATEAU 2014                     
     

				
     
         Thomas visited rainy Portland to co-chair the  Fifth Workshop on the Evaluation and Usability of Programming Languages and Tools  at  SPLASH 2014 . There were many  great talks  on topics ranging from making programming more social through newsfeeds to an analysis of how race detection tools benefit developers. Josh Bloch, designer of the Java collections framework and author of Effective Java, gave an awesome keynote on the  history of the API , including one of the most prescient two page papers ever written. New this year was a track for hypotheses papers, explicitly detailing the expecting practical usability implications of language features and tools on the practice of programming. For example, Jonathan Aldrich gave a retrospective of his work on programming language design for protocols, detailing hypotheses about its practical benefits for developers. The day concluded with some animated group brainstorming on the usability effects of types, program analysis, API documentation, and IDEs. 
     
     
        
           Posted in    Uncategorized   by  tlatoza .
          Comments Off  on PLATEAU 2014   
         
     
  												  
     
         Oct 14  8  
          UIST 2014                     
     

				
     
         Thomas attended  UIST 2014  in Honolulu, presenting his paper on Microtask programming: building software with a crowd. There were a number of interesting papers related to programming tools and crowdsourcing. 
 SDCL also had an entry in the UIST 2014  Analog Fabrication Sandcastle Competition . 
     
        
           Posted in    Travel   by  tlatoza .
          Comments Off  on UIST 2014   
         
     
  												  
     
         Oct 14  8  
          Welcome Consuelo                     
     

				
     
         Welcome Consuelo!  
 Consuelo Lopez is a new master student joining our research group. She has work experience in software quality and she is currently interested in developing tools for software design. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Welcome Consuelo   
         
     
  												  
     
         Sep 14  15  
          Welcome Arturo and Fabio                     
     

				
     
         Welcome Arturo Di Lecce and Fabio Ricci! 
 Arturo and Fabio join us from Politecnico di Milano in Italy, where they are currently masters students. They’ll be visiting SDCL in sunny California for the next year and will be working on projects related to crowd programming and crowd design. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  tlatoza .
          Comments Off  on Welcome Arturo and Fabio   
         
     
  												  
     
         Aug 14  22  
          Thesis Defense Congratulations                     
     

				
     
         Micky and Lucy have graduated cum laude with their M.S. degrees from the University of Amsterdam. 
 The research they performed in SDCL uncovered interesting aspects of crowdsourcing software design. 
 We are hard at work on a paper summarizing their findings. 
     
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Thesis Defense Congratulations   
         
     
  												  
     
         Aug 14  12  
          CodeExchange – A new Java code search engine                     
     

				
     
         Program Java? Checkout  CodeExchange , our new code search engine. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  lmartie .
          Comments Off  on CodeExchange – A new Java code search engine   
         
     
  												  
     
         Jul 14  30  
          Crowd Programming featured on ACM TechNews                     
     

				
     
         Our work on Crowd Programming was also featured on  ACM TechNews  and  Techwire.net . 
        
           Posted in    News   by  tlatoza .
          Comments Off  on Crowd Programming featured on ACM TechNews   
         
     
  												  
     
         Jul 14  24  
          Press on Crowd Programming Grant                     
     

				
     
         Our work on crowd programming has been briefly featured in both the  UC Irinve News  and in  Campus Technology . 
        
           Posted in    News   by  tlatoza .
          Comments Off  on Press on Crowd Programming Grant   
         
     
  												  
     
         Jul 14  13  
          Welcome Gleiph                     
     

				
     
         We have a new member in SDCL – Gleiph Ghiotto. 
 Gleiph is a 3rd year PhD student from Fluminense Federal University. His advisor is professor Leonardo Murta. Gleiph will spend six months in our lab investigating merging and diffing approaches in open source repositories. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Welcome Gleiph   
         
     
  												  
     
         Jul 14  7  
          Congratulations to the UC Irvine Design Competition Winners!                     
     

				
     
         Congratulations to Ulyana Skladchikova and Matias Giorgio, two of the winners in the  UC Irvine Software Design Competition . Participants first produced a design – describing either a system’s architecture and design or its user experience – and were then given some of the designs produced by others, producing a second revised design incorporating insights they had learned from others. All of the designs were evaluated by a panel of experts, and we selected the best designs. Many of the designs were very strong, reflecting lots of hard work. Thanks to all who participated! 
        
           Posted in    News   by  tlatoza .
          Comments Off  on Congratulations to the UC Irvine Design Competition Winners!   
         
     
  												 	    
         
          « Previous Page  
          Next Page »  
          
     
    
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			      
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 