 HighTech in Japan – Toilets – Ramesh Jain 
	
	 
				 
		 
								 
				   							
		 Search 
		
					  
								 
									Ramesh Jain								 
							 
														 Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher 
																
				 
	 	
		
	    About Ramesh 
   News  
	  Events  
  
  Towards Weaving the Visual Web  
  Research 
   Books  
	  Patents  
	  Presentations  
	  Projects  
	  Research Papers 
	   Computer Vision  
		  Experiential Computing  
		  Multimedia Information Management  
	  
  
  Teaching 
   Current Courses  
	  Past Courses  
  
  Entrepreneurship 
   Current Companies  
	  Past Companies  
  
  Partners 
   Current Students  
	  Past Students  
	  Collaborators  
  
  Professional/Social 
   Services  
	  Recognitions  
	  Interviews  
  
  Personal 
   Affiliations  
	  Education  
	  Favorite Books  
	  Favorite Quotes  
  
  Digital India: A potentially transformative opportunity  
  Navigation    
					 

 
	

 
    	 
    				HighTech in Japan – Toilets    			 
  			 
    			 Japan is one of the most gadget oriented countries.  You see use of gadgets in everyday life in possibly the most innovative ways anywhere in the world.  When many other parts of Asia still are in 19th century in terms of the use of technology, Japan is a trailblazer in many respects.  I am always amazed at what I see here.  And on this trip, I did not have chance so far to go out and see Tokyo because of meetings, but the hotel room’s toilet sowed me that this gadget oriented innovation well, alive, and thriving in Japan. 
 The toilet seat has hot and cold water, variable rate bidet and shower.  This was there the last time I was here.  This time, it has pressure controlled exhaust fan and deodorizer.  As soon as you sit on the seat, the exhaust fan starts and the deodorizer gets in action.  So you don;t have to smell any odors even in the toilet — not even the one that you are responsible for.  I am wowed! 
 And I am told that Akihabara is a different place now then when I saw it 4 years ago.  Eager to see that. 
  			 
  			 	        			
    			 
    				 By  Ramesh   |
    				  November 12, 2009   |
    				             		  General Updates   |
             	 
    				             		  2 Comments   |
             	 		          				
    			 
    		 

  						    ←  Search and Recommendation  
				  International academic research perspectives  →   
			  

	
			 
			2 thoughts on “ HighTech in Japan – Toilets ”		 

		  
		   website design company    November 12, 2009 at 10:41 pm 			 Japan has always been the leader in technology.No one can surpass them.That’s my opinion of course…and like you’ve said..they use gadgets in a very innovative way.Wow!!some amazing thing happening in Japanese toilets.Awesome innovation!!!look forward to hearing from you soon again. 
							 
							 
		 
	 
		   Kunnath Santhosh    November 17, 2009 at 10:47 pm 			 While this sounds cool, I am left wondering if mind is being applied to solving a big enough problem. I think pretty much everyone can make do with the limited technology that exists today. 🙂  In anycase, it is a lot better than a 100 odd years back when chamber pots were considered a luxury! 🙂 
 –Santhosh  http://www.perfios.com  
							 
							 
		 
		  
		 Leave a Reply   Cancel reply   			
				  Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  *    Comment     Name  *    
  Email  *    
  Website   
  			
			 
	
 
		  


 
	


  


	    

	   
	   	
	   
	    
				 
			 
				    Copyright © 2017   Ramesh Jain   |  Theme by:   Theme Horse   |  Powered by:   WordPress    
			   Back to Top  		 

	 

</body> 