 CS 175 | Winter 2017 
  
   
 
 


 
    CS 175: Project in Artificial Intelligence, Winter 2017    

  General Information   
    Time:   Monday and Wednesday, 2:00 to 3:20pm  
   Location:   ICS 174 in Week 1. DBH 1422 starting in Week 2 and for the rest of the quarter   
   Instructor:    
 Professor Padhraic Smyth  
   Office Hours:  9:30 to 10:30 on Mondays, and 10 to 11 on Tuesdays, DBH 4216 
     
 Weekly Schedule     
    Software   Links to software you will need for this class  
    Lecture slides   
   Questions?   please use the 
  Piazza class Website   for class-related questions and discussion  
  
   Course Description:   
Students in this project class will work individually or in small teams to develop 
artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms and apply them to a range of different 
problems related to natural language and text analysis. These problems can include, for example, document classification 
and clustering, sentiment analysis, information extraction, word prediction, text synthesis, question-answering systems,
and so on. Projects can make use of real-world publicly-available data from sources such as Twitter, Wikipedia, news articles, 
product and movie reviews, email data sets, the US patent database, and more.



 
    Piazza Class Website :  
We will use Piazza for questions, online discussion, announcements, etc.
 Please use the Piazza class forum as your first option for asking questions outside of class 
or office hours. Please also feel free to answer other students' questions, to initiate
discussions on project-related topics, etc. 
If you wish to communicate directly with only the instructor you can send a private message to the
instructor within Piazza.


 
   Project Resources  
    Links to Tutorial Articles related to Project Topics   
   Links to Possible Data Sets for Projects   
   Links to Software and Demos for Text Analysis   
  
  Assignments and Deadlines 
     Assignment 1 . Deadline is noon Wednesday Jan 18th. 
 
    Assignment 2 . Deadline is noon Thursday Jan 26th. 
 
    Project Proposal . Deadline is 11pm Friday February 3rd.  
 
   Project Progress Report  
(not yet online)
 

   Project Final Report  
(not yet online)
 
  
   Grading Policy  
Final grades will be based on the following weighted combination:
   20% for Assignments 1 and 2 (10% each)  
  20% for Project Proposal  
  20% for Project Progress Report  
  10% for in-class Project Presentations  
  30% for Final Project Report  
  
   Academic Integrity   
Please read the guidelines on academic integrity below. Academic integrity is taken seriously in this class. 
   Failure to adhere to the policies below can result in a student receiving a failing grade in the class.  
 
   For assignments  you are allowed to discuss the assignments verbally with other class members, 
but you are not allowed to look at or to copy anyone else's written solutions or code. 
All problem solutions and code submitted must be material you have personally written during 
this quarter, except for any standard library or utility functions.  
    For class projects  all reports submitted must be written by you or members of your project team. 
Code generated for class projects can be a combination of code written by team members and 
publicly-available code. You should clearly indicate in your reports and in your
code documentation which parts of your code was written by you or your team
and which parts of your code was written by others.   
   It is the responsibility of each student to be familiar with 
 UCI's Academic Integrity Policies 
and
  UCI's definitions and examples of
academic misconduct .
 
 
   

 

  </body> 