 
	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                             
        	
		
		    
  
            
 
 
 
	 Calico 
	 ...an intuitive sketch-based design environment for use on touch-based devices... 
	  
	   
 
	 PorchLight 
	 ...a desktop bug tracker interface designed to support effective bug triaging... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Development 
	 ...a cloud IDE for building software with a crowd... 
	  
	   
 
	 CodeExchange 
	 ...supporting iterative internet-scale code search... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Debugging 
	 How hundreds of workers can help locate faults in software?  
	  
	   
 
	 CrowdDesign 
	 ...crowd sourced software designs [...] 
	  
	   
 

             
            
             
                  Welcome 			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design. 
		              
         
                
         
			 
            	 	
			 
     
         Mar 13  14  
          Arie van Deursen visit                     
     

				
     
         We had a great time hosting  Arie van Deursen  from TU Delft in the Netherlands.  We had a long demo session during which we provided us with some great feedback, and he gave a great talk as part of the  ISR Distinguished Speaker series . 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Arie van Deursen visit   
         
     
  												  
     
         Feb 13  28  
          SDCL ICSE Papers                     
     

				
     
         SDCL will be presenting the following papers at ICSE 2013: 
 Research track 
 PorchLight: A Tag-Based Approach to Bug Triaging 
 Gerald Bortis and Andre van der Hoek 
 Education track 
 Enabling a Classroom Design Studio with a Collaborative Sketch Design Tool 
 Dastyni Loksa, Nicolas Mangano, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek 
 MISE Workshop 
 Light-weight Analysis of Software Design Models at the Whiteboard 
 Alfredo Motta, Nicolas Mangano, Andre van der Hoek 
 CHASE Workshop 
 Toward Social-Technical Code Search 
 Lee Martie and André van der Hoek 
 Crowd Development 
 Thomas D. LaToza, W. Ben Towne, André van der Hoek, James D. Herblseb 
 A Study of Architectural Decision Practices 
 Thomas D. LaToza, Evelina Shabani, André van der Hoek 
  See you in San Francisco! 
        
           Posted in    News   by  tlatoza .
          Comments Off  on SDCL ICSE Papers   
         
     
  												  
     
         Dec 12  25  
          Michele thanks                     
     

				
     
         Michele Bonazza is now back in Italy to complete his Ph.D. program there. Time has gone very fast and we have had a great time.  Look toward CaliSmall, a standalone adaptation of Calico for Android tablets, to hopefully appear in the Google Play store soon… 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Michele thanks   
         
     
  												  
     
         Dec 12  12  
          Marian Petre visit                     
     

				
     
         Our long-term collaborator Marian Petre from The Open University visited us for this week, working on finalizing a book to be published out of the SPSD 2010 workshop (it is almost done!), and providing us with feedback on Nick Mangano’s work on analyzing sketches on whiteboards.  Her insights are always much appreciated and we already look forward to her next visit! 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Marian Petre visit   
         
     
  												  
     
         Dec 12  4  
          PorchLight ICSE paper!                     
     

				
     
         Congrats to Gerald Bortis for the ICSE acceptance of his paper on PorchLight! 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on PorchLight ICSE paper!   
         
     
  												  
     
         Nov 12  18  
          Affinity diagramming                     
     

				
     
         We had a lot of fun grouping the results of Evelina’s and Thomas’ interviews. Nick Mangano suggested an indexation. Nick Lopez came up with many labels (topics?) to one note. Michele complained about so much meta-data. Lee suggested a group for the “unrelated”. Since the sticky notes moved all over the walls, the outcome looks promising. More work to do! 
     
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Affinity diagramming   
         
     
  												  
     
         Oct 12  20  
          Welcome Sergio!                     
     

				
     
         Our group continues to grow!  We are very excited to welcome  Sergio Villaverde Herrera  to the laboratory.  He is joining us for the year as an education abroad student from the University of Granada, Spain, and is exploring building a scalable server side to Calico (scalable to many many users). 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Welcome Sergio!   
         
     
  												  
     
         Oct 12  18  
          Groupwork on tablets                     
     

				
     
         Michele – looking amused at the funny cat pictures we found while restoring some images from the tablets (sometimes, servers crash and important work is almost lost…). 
   
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Groupwork on tablets   
         
     
  												  
     
         Sep 12  11  
          SDCL has moved                     
     

				
     
         The SDCL has moved!  Our new space is in ICS1, room 414 (see our  directions page ).  Come visit us in our new space for a tour (and demos, as always!).   
   
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on SDCL has moved   
         
     
  												  
     
         Sep 12  11  
          SCALE meeting in Nebraska                     
     

				
     
         Four SDCL members visited Lincoln, NE for the SCALE meeting, joining collaborators at Carnegie Mellon and UNL in the cornfields. SDCL presented work on several ongoing projects including crowdsourced programming, tagging code, and triaging bugs. Andre gave a talk surveying the past, present, and future of SDCL. And we discussed ways of further involving industry partners in our work. 
        
           Posted in    Travel   by  tlatoza .
          Comments Off  on SCALE meeting in Nebraska   
         
     
  												 	    
         
          « Previous Page  
          Next Page »  
          
     
    
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			      
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 