 Deliverable 3: Design<body>
 
 Architecture/Module Specifications/Design 
 

 As has been discussed in class, you have substantial flexibility in
choosing the specific form for the content of your deliverables. Below
is a list of items that should be included in your third deliverable. 

  Due Date 
 
TBD.

    Document Contents  

 Introduction 

 Expand your introduction to discuss your specific approaches to the
design of the system. 

 Understanding 

 This will basically be the same as in your original document. Make sure
it describes what steps or actions you took to understand each technology
or software. If you make changes to this section, add text describing why
the change was necessary, and why it more accurately reflects your new
understanding. If your understanding hasn't changed, then this section does
not need to be different. 

 Project Plan 

 This will be an iterative expansion of your previous submission. Expand
your project plan to represent how you have accomplished the work so far.
Expand your task network or work breakdown structure to the level of detail
needed to complete this task. Based on the work you have done, revise your
estimates on how much your team can accomplish and deliver. If you make
changes, add text describing why the change was necessary or why it will
improve the ability of your team to accomplish the work you have proposed. 

 Requirements 

 This will basically be the same as in your previous document. If any
requirements are changed, added or deleted, make this explicit. Describe
why the requirement was changed/added/deleted and by whom ( customer, developer,
etc.). Again make sure your requirements meet the objectives of completeness,
understandbility, utility, no ambiguity, consistency.  If your requirements
have not changed, then this section may be identical to what you submitted
earlier. 

 Architecture/Module Specifications 

  Architecture Overview

	   Architectural Style
	  What style of architecture did you adopt?  Provide a reference to a 
	defining document.
	   System Architecture Overview
	  This is the place for your "one great diagram" that shows how your
	system is built.  You might want to use more than one diagram, to show,
	e.g., some different abstractions of the design (such as a data flow
	view, a layers of abstraction view, or an OS process view)
	   Component Narrative -- what each subsystem means
	   Major Limitations on the Current Design
	    Modules/Objectives

	   List of Objects within your system
	   For each module/object, provide a Class Specification
	
		   Name
		   Definition - what it is/does
		   Narrative/Comment, How it works
		   What are the object's APIs? E.g., using Java terminology

			   public
			   private
			   protected
			     Data - What state does it keep, what variables? Who has the 
			access to it?
		   How does it fit into the inheritance/with/uses heirarchy?
		   Constraints - what constraints are there for this object/module?
		   Cardinality - How many will there be?
		     Other useful diagrams : Uses, Composed-of, API's Class-Category Diagrams,
		Design Class diagrams, or other useful diagrams.
	   Design Object Scenario. Pick one object/ module and show the complete
		implementation detail of a key mechanism.
	     File Structure and Global Data - how will your objects / modules
	be kept, sub-directories, Makefiles , etc.

   Requirements Cross Reference - what objects/modules satisfy what requirements?
	Make a table, make a table, make it complete and consistent.

   Testing Plan - How and when will you test it?

   Demonstration Plan - How and what will you demonstrate?
   5. Documentation 

   List the documents you have developed during this phase of the project.
   Reference Documents
	 List here the major sources of information that you will be using during
	the remainder of the project.
  </body> 