 Course Notebook<body>                   Aside from the Baase text, all the  required readings for the course are listed on line at     http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/131/s04readings.html    . Most of the readings are available on line; others may be reproduced ina readings packet available at the ECC.  For each reading listed (not countingthe Baase text), you will write a notebook entry that identifies the article,summarizes it, and gives your reaction to it, as described in more detailbelow.  You will collect these entries and submit them periodically forreview.  It will help us focus on the content of your notebooks if you followthe formatting requirements at the end of this document, so please readthem with care.    We provide quite a bit of detailed advicebelow, but an excellent notebook can consist of entries that are each shorterthan half a page.  We'd like you to do some careful reading and seriousthinking, but you don't need to do a lot of writing for each notebookentry.     Advice on reading and responding:  As you read each article, we ask you to look critically at the materialbeing presented.  This doesn't mean you need to criticize the articleor author; it means you need to form your own opinion about it rather thanjust accepting what the author says.    First, identify what the author is tryingto do.  Does the article attempt to persuade, to inform, to teach, or somethingelse?  Most of these articles were not written for students of computerscience; who  is  the author's intended audience?  Then, in yourreaction, say whether you think the author did a good job; do you thinkthe article has the intended effect on the intended audience?  Below aresome common kinds of articles, though the list isn't exclusive:     Does the author take a position (pro or con)on a particular issue or argument?  If so, identify exactly what the issueis, what the author's position is, and what justification or argumentsthe author gives for that position.  Then, in your reaction, state yourown position, say whether you agree or disagree with the author and why,and say whether you think anything was left out of the argument.  If youcan't take a stand, explain why not.      Instead of taking a position, does the authorprovide guidelines or recommendations to manage or improve some situation? (Some pro-and-con articles do this, too.)  If so, identify the situationand the substance of the author's recommendations.  Then, in your reaction,say whether you think the recommendations will be effective and why or whynot.      Is the article an example of straight reporting(i.e., does the author just describe a situation without appearing to takesides or make recommendation)?  If so, say whether (and why) you find thepresentation understandable, convincing, biased, incomplete, or somethingelse.     Doing an abbreviated stakeholder analysis--notjust identifying the main parties affected but also considering what eachparty wants and why--may also help you address the kinds of issues and questionsindicated above.     Article summaries:   When you summarizean article, don't rehash every detail.  Take the time to identify thehighlights and the main ideas.  Although the occasional pithy phrase maybe worth repeating verbatim, keep the quoting to a minimum and try to restatethe key ideas in your own words--this is a way for you to make sure youfully understand the issues in the article and any position the author hastaken.  A paragraph or two of summary should be plenty, even for the longerarticles, so long as you remember that length isn't equivalent to substanceor quality.  Thomas Jefferson once said, quoting Blaise Pascal, "I'dhave written you a shorter letter, but I didn't have the time." It takes some time and thought to distill out the essence, but it'sprecisely that effort that produces the greatest understanding.    Sometimes a series of articles addresses thesame situation.  In those cases, your summaries for the later articles canjust identify what's different about them:  Do they provide more recentinformation?  Do they have a different perspective?  You don't haveto repeat the similarities.     Article reactions:    Besides answeringthe questions listed above, your reaction can include what you learned fromthe article, whether you agreed or disagreed (with the facts stated, withthe arguments made, with the author's core values), how it relates toyour own experience (if it does), or whether you found the writing easyto follow.  Try to relate the article to the broad theme of the articlesin the same section of the readings.  Feel free to say that the articledidn't fit well, wasn't easy to understand, or didn't teachyou anything if that's your opinion.  These are guidelines and suggestions;we do not expect you to answer every question for every article.  A paragraphor two of thoughtful reaction is enough.     Grading:   The notebooks will be gradedon a check, check-plus, check-minus basis.  A comprehensible minimum responseas described above should earn a check, which counts about 85%.  To earna check, you need to convince us that you've read each article, understoodit, and thought about it enough to form an opinion about it.  We do expectyou to read and react to all the readings on the list; omissions will decreaseyour score    We will not grade the notebooks specificallyfor English mechanics, but where mechanical problems get in the way of ourunderstanding your entries, your score will be lower.  In your notebook,you may include text from an article in that article's review withoutquoting it meticulously, but too much copying from the text (rather thansummarizing in your own words) diminishes the benefit of doing the notebookand may lower your score.  You still must attribute any other outside informationyou include and of course you can't use other students' summariesor reactions in place of your own.     Format of notebook entries:   It willhelp us handle the large volume of notebooks if you take care to followprecisely the formatting requirements below. Each notebook entry must includethese parts in this order:     A line identifying the article (e.g., "P3:Dave Wilson, 'Marketeers Want to Keep Your Secrets' "), consistingof       The section and sequence number of the articlein the reading list, abbreviating the section name.  The first article inthe voting section would be "V1;" the third article in the privacysection would be "P3."  The numbers are shown on the reading list;you don't have to count by hand.      The article's author and title.       A blank line to separate the identifying linefrom the rest of the entry.  (Using bold face for the identifying line wouldalso be fine.)      A brief summary of the article's mainpoints (see above).      Your own reaction to the article, preferablyin a separate paragraph (see above).      Format of entire notebook:   Pleasefollow these overall requirements:     You may read the articles in any order, butyour notebook must be in the same order as the reading list.  If you didskip an article, you should still include its identification line (section/sequencenumber, author, title as described above) in your notebook, in order.  (Youcan do most of this work by copying and pasting from the reading list webpage.)      Leave an inch or two of empty space (blanklines) between entries in your notebook. Don't put each entry on itsown page.      Produce your notebook in Word or PDF (Acrobat)format.  If your word processor can't produce either, please let usknow and we'll try to make arrangements.      Put your name and ID on the first page (andon all pages if you like).  You don't need a separate cover page withthis information.      Use a 10-point or a 12-point font, single-spacedlines, and 1.25-inch margins.      "Why do we have to do these?":  We appreciate that writing these notebooks may seem like busywork. However, there is much more to them than that. By articulating the summaryand your reaction to each article, you will understand it and remember itbetter than you would if you simply read it and went on.  The notebook alsogives you a relatively pressure-free way to practice reducing your thoughtsto written prose, practice everyone can benefit from.  Finally, you maybring a paper copy of your notebook (but not the articles themselves) withyou to the midterm and final exams; if your summaries and analyses are accurateand thorough, they will help you answer the exam questions.  Students oftenask whether they can make changes or additions to the notebooks they turnedin, and bring the changed version to the exam.  This is fine, although ofcourse it won't change the grade you received on the notebook.     Due dates and submission details:  Since we expect you to keep up with the reading and write your reactionsas soon as you finish each article, you should be ready to turn in thiselectronic course notebook at any time.  The due dates for the notebookinstallments are shown on the  course syllabus ;other  details about paper and electronic submission are available on a separate sheet.   </body> 