 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  June 16,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         Gillen, Ombao named ASA Fellows</strong>
              Statistics Professors Daniel Gillen and Hernando Ombao will be honored during an August ceremony as Fellows of the American Statistical Association.
    
                    
Statistics Professors  Daniel Gillen</strong> and  Hernando Ombao</strong> have been named  Fellows of the American Statistical Association (ASA) , the nation’s preeminent professional statistical society. One of the highest honors in the profession, fellows are recognized “for outstanding professional contributions to and leadership in the field of statistical science,” according the ASA.

  
Gillen is noted for his contributions to statistical methodology in censoring-robust survival analysis, group sequential methods and genetic epidemiology; for continuing and effective mentoring of students; for exemplary statistical consulting; and for significant contributions to the statistical profession.
Ombao is specifically noted for his contributions to time series analysis, spatio-temporal models and signal processing, and their applications to brain imaging and neuroscience; and for student mentoring in these research areas.

  
“The designation of ASA Fellow has been a significant honor for nearly 100 years,” the ASA says. Only one-third of one percent of ASA members can be elected fellows annually, and recipients are nominated by their ASA-member peers. Fellows are evaluated on their contributions to the advancement of statistical science, the impact of their published works, their position with their employer, and activities with the ASA and other professional societies. “To be honored, nominees must have an established reputation in the profession and have made outstanding contributions to statistical science,” the ASA adds.

  
Ombao and Gillen will be honored during a formal award ceremony at the  Joint Statistical Meetings  in Chicago this August, where Statistics Professor and ASA President Jessica Utts will give a presidential address. Gillen and Ombao join an ICS cohort of ASA fellows that includes UCI Statistics Professors Utts, Hal Stern and Wesley Johnson. 





   Gillen, Ombao named ASA Fellows    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Ph.D. student Tehrani awarded Link Foundation Fellowship
              
                Next &gt; 
                 Mark to speak at Aspen Ideas Festival
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 