 Security in Outsourced Databases<body>
   

 
   Security in Outsourced Databases  
 
  
 Overview  |  System Model  |
 Objectives  |  People  |
 Publications  |  Presentations 
 

             Overview     
	    

In the  Outsourced Database Model (ODB) , organizations outsource their data management needs to an external service provider.  The service provider hosts client's databases and offers seamless mechanisms to create, store, update and access (query) their databases.  This model introduces several research issues related to data security which we explore.

              System Model     
	    

  
    
 

The Outsourced Database Model  consists of 3 entities: (1) the data owner(s), (2) the database service provider (server) and (3) the client(s) (also referred to querier(s)).  The data owner
creates, modifies and deletes the contents of the database.  The server
hosts the owner's database, i.e., the owner outsources its database to the
server.  The clients issue queries about the database to the server.

  Some of the parameters identifying a specific ODB include the number of owners and clients and the type of trust in the server.  Is the server trusted with the data contents but not with integrity?  Or do we not trust the database administrators and therefore need to employ encryption to provide data privacy?

    
           Objectives     
	    

We wish to address various security issues that arise in the Outsourced Database Model.  These range from providing data confidentiality, authenticity and integrity, to enabling an untrusted server to run queries over encrypted data.  We also focus on the performance aspects of our solutions.

   
  Authenticity and Integrity  
Using signatures we provide mechanisms to allow the querier (client) to ensure that the records returned from the untrusted server originated from the data owner and have not been tampered with.  We aim at minimizing the bandwidth and computation required to enable this verification.  A new signature scheme, Condensed-RSA, is proposed and we compare its performance with an elliptic curve based signature scheme introduced by Boneh, et al.
  

 
  Data Privacy  
If the database server is fully untrusted, the measures need to be taken
such as to protect the owner's data privacy.  The goal is to hide the data contents from the server, by employing data encryption, while still allowing the server to operate the database.  In other words the challenge can be formulated as: how to allow the server to perform queries over encrypted data.
  

 
  Efficient Secure Storage Model in RDBMS  
Several database vendors already offer integrated solutions that aim to provide data privacy within existing products.  Treating security and privacy issues as an afterthought often results in inefficient implementations.  Some notable RDBMS storage models (such as the N-ary Storage Model) suffer from this problem.  We analyze issues in storage, looking at trade-offs between security and efficiency, and then propose a secure storage model, Partition Plaintext Ciphertext (PPC), which enables efficient cryptographic operations while maintaining a high level of security.
  
              People     
	    

    Principal Invesitagors (UCI) 
		   Sharad Mehrotra  
		  Gene Tsudik  
		   
	  Graduate Student Researchers (UCI) 
		  Bijit Hore 
		 Ravi Jammalamadaka 
		  Einar Mykletun  
		  Maithili Narasimha  
		 Yonghua Wu 
		  
              Publications     
	    

    Privacy and Authenticity/Integrity 
	 

	   
          Aggregation Queries in the
         Database-As-a-Service Model   Einar Mykletun and Gene Tsudik   Data and Application Security
          (DBSEC 2006) , July 2006 
       
       

		  
		 Authentication of Outsourced Databases using Signature Aggregation and Chaining   Maithili Narasimha and Gene Tsudik   International Conference on Database Systems for Advanced Applications
		 (DASFAA 2006) , Apr 2006 
		 PDF 
		  
		 
		 
		 DSAC: Integrity of Outsourced Databases with Signature Aggregation and Chaining (Short Paper/Poster)   Maithili Narasimha and Gene Tsudik   ACM Conference on Information and Knowledge Management
		 (CIKM 2005) , Nov 2005 
		 PDF 
		  
		 
		 
		 Efficient Aggregation of Encrypted Data in Wireless Sensor Networks   Claude Castelluccia, Einar Mykletun and Gene Tsudik   International Conference on Mobile and Ubiquitous Systems
		 (MobiQuitous 2005) , Jul 2005 
		 PDF 
		  
		 
		 
		 Incorporating a Secure Coprocessor in the Database-as-a-Service Model   Einar Mykletun and Gene Tsudik   International Workshop on Innovative Architecture for Future Generation High Performance Processors and Systems
		 (IWIA 2005) , Jan 2005 
		 PDF 
		  
		 
		 
		 Signature Bouquets: Immutability for Aggregated/Condensed Signatures   Einar Mykletun, Maithili Narasimha and Gene Tsudik   European Symposium On Research in Computer Security 
		 (ESORICS 2004) , Sep 2004 
		 PDF 
		  
		 
		 
		 A Privacy-Preserving Index for Range Queries   Bijit Hore, Sharad Mehrotra Gene Tsudik   International Conference on Very Large Databases
		 (VLDB 2004) , Aug 2004 
		 PDF 
		  
		 
		 
		 A Framework for Efficient Storage Security in RDBMS   Bala Iyer, Sharad Mehrotra, Einar Mykletun, Gene Tsudik and Yonghua Wu   International Conference on Extending Database Technology 
		 (EDBT 2004) , Mar 2004 
		 PDF 
		  
		 
		
		 
		 Authentication and Integrity in Outsourced Databases   Einar Mykletun, Maithili Narasimha and Gene Tsudik   Network and Distributed System Security 
		 (NDSS 2004) , Feb 2004 
		 PDF 
		  
		 
		
		 
		 Efficient Execution of Aggregation Queries over Encrypted Relational Databases   Hakan Hacigumus, Bala Iyer and Sharad Mehrotra   Database Systems for Advanced Applications 
		 (DASFAA 2004) , Mar 2004 
		
		  
		 
			
		 
		 Executing SQL over Encrypted Data in the Database-Service-Provider Model   Hakan Hacigumus, Bala Iyer, Chen Li and Sharad Mehrotra   ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data
		 (SIGMOD 2002) , June 2002 
		 PDF 
		  
		 

		 
		 Providing Database as a Service   Hakan Hacigumus, Bala Iyer and Sharad Mehrotra   IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering
		 (ICDE 2002) , Feb 2002 
		 PDF 
		  
		 
		
		 
		 Querying Encrypted XML Documents   Ravi Jammalamadaka, Sharad Mehrotra   UCI Technical Report  
		  
		 
	  
	
              Presentations     
	    

   
		 Privacy and Integrity in Outsourced Databases 
		 PDF  
		Distinguished invited talk at  CERIAS ,  Purdue University , April 2004
	 
	 
	  
		 A Framework for Efficient Storage Security in RDBMS 
		 PDF  
		Conference presentation at  EDBT 2004 
	 
	 
	  
		 Authentication and Integrity in Outsourced Databases 
		 PDF  
		Conference presentation at  NDSS 2004 
	 
      </body> 