 Informatics 131 Course Reference • Summer 2008<body>
 Summer 2008 —     Information and Computer Sciences  —  UC Irvine  
 
 Informatics 131  Course Reference   H UMAN -C OMPUTER
 I NTERACTION   
 
  Instructor:    David G. Kay ,
5056 Donald Bren Hall (   kay@uci.edu   )  
   Quick links:  Current  slides: Week  1   2   3   4   5   All slides (printable, July 25)   Textbook   Assignments   Email archive   References   
   Course goals:  The first 40 years of
  computer science were concerned mainly with computers themselves—making
  them faster, smaller, more reliable, and better understood mathematically.
  Perhaps that's still the main concern of the field as a whole, but
  today computer scientists devote increasing attention to computers in their
  real-world context, which usually involves the people who use them.  
 
 Computers may be complex systems, but human
beings are even more complex, and when we try to understand how computers
and people work together—well, there's a lot to learn.  This course
will introduce the broad field of human-computer interaction (HCI):  The
psychological underpinnings of cognition and perception; the variety of
interaction devices, media, and styles; methods for designing systems
and evaluating their usability; and the principles and guidelines the field has developed.  The success of most systems today, especially
consumer products, depends largely on HCI decisions.  
 
 This course is also the prerequisite for Informatics 132, the project course in HCI.  
 
  Prerequisite courses and concepts: 
 The prerequisite for Informatics 131 is one course in computing and upper division
standing. The course will not require any significant programming—that's
for Informatics 132—but we do expect each student to be able to write clear, cogent,
grammatical English at an upper division level because much of the work
in this course will involve describing and justifying the design decisions
and evaluation judgements you make.  We also expect you to have these basic
computing skills:  Searching and browsing the Web, reading and sending Email,
downloading files, viewing and printing PDF (Adobe Acrobat) documents, and
creating or saving documents for Email and other purposes in plain ASCII
text form (not HTML or Word attachments).   
 
  Meeting place and times:   Lecture meets
Tuesdays and Thursdays from 1:00 to 3:50 p.m. in Engineering Lecture Hall 110. The originally listed discussion and lab sections will not meet.  
 
  Office hours:   I will be in or near
my office during these scheduled hours, during which course-related matters
will have first priority:  Tuesdays and Thursdays from 12:30 to 12:50. I will also be glad to meet right after class.  Of course emergencies may come
up, but I will try to give advance notice of any change.  If I'm not
immersed in something else, I'll be glad to answer short questions whenever
I'm in my office, so feel free to drop by any time.  I'll also be
happy to make appointments for other times during the week.  The quickest
and most effective way to reach me is by electronic mail.  
 
  Questions and announcements:   You can
usually get a response to your course-related questions within a few hours
(perhaps a bit longer on the weekends) by sending electronic mail to the
address    kay@uci.edu   .
  
 
 We may also send course announcements by Email
to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email regularly.
 Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
has for you (your UCInet ID).  If you prefer to read your Email on another
account, you should set your UCInet account to forward your Email to your
preferred account (you can do this on the web at   
 http://www.nacs.uci.edu/email/forward.html   ).
 Don't let this slide; if you miss official announcements, your grade
could suffer.    

 This course has a home page at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/131/   ;    http://e3.uci.edu/08y/w3m3/37025    h   olds an archive of official course
Email. If there's interest in setting up a Note Board for semi-public communication among students, let us know. 
 
  Textbook and course materials:   
  Interaction Design:  Beyond Human-Computer Interaction,  second edition, by Jennifer
Preece, Yvonne Rogers, and Helen Sharp.   
 
  The Cognitive Style of PowerPoint: Pitching Out Corrupts Within,  second edition, by 
Edward R. Tufte. This short monograph takes a critical look at the use of
PowerPoint, a pervasive means of presenting information.  
 
  Visual &amp; Statistical Thinking: Displays
of Evidence for Decision Making,  by Edward R. Tufte.  This reprint of
Chapter 2 of Tufte's book,  Visual Explanations,  describes two
situations where the way information was presented had life-or-death consequences.  
 
  Course structure:
    Assignments  
(40% of the course grade, with later assignments generally weighted more
heavily than earlier ones)
  Class participation  (15%)
  One midterm,  given in class on Thursday, July 10 (15%)
  One final exam,  on Tuesday, July 29, from 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. (30%)  
 
 We will guarantee that overall scores over
90% will receive an A- or better, scores over 80% a B- or better, and scores
over 70% a C or better, but the actual grade cutoffs may be lower.  
 
 We're required to say that in unusual
circumstances, these criteria could change, but we do not expect that to
happen.  
   Special needs:  Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation due to a disability should contact the UCI Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to explore the possible range of accommodations. We encourage all students having difficulty, whether or not due to a disability, to consult privately with the instructor at any time.   
 
    What you must do right now to get started
in Informatics 131:
  — If you do not have a UCInet ID (an account on the EA system for Email),
get one.  See    http://www.oac.uci.edu/computing/activate.html   .
 
— If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
UCInet account, redirect your mail at    http://www.nacs.uci.edu/email/forward.html   .     — Complete the  Informatics 131 Questionnaire  at http://eee.uci.edu/survey/infx131summer08 (by 5:00 on Thursday, June 26).   — Go to  checkmate.ics.uci.edu , log in with your UCInet ID, choose "Course Listing," click "Go" next to Informatics 131, and then click "List me for this course." You'll submit most of your work electronically; this step is necessary to set that up.   
— If you aren't yet officially enrolled in the course, check the course
  Email archive regularly (see above) so you can keep up with official announcements
(which may include announcements about enrollment).  
 
  Good advice and helpful hints:   
 
 Check your electronic mail regularly; this
is an official channel for course announcements. When sending course-related mail, start the subject line with "Infx 131" or "HCI class".  
 
 Attendance in class is essential; concepts
and issues that come up in class will find their way onto the exams and
class participation in various forms counts towards the  course grade.  
 
 Always keep your own copy of each assignment,
both electronically and on paper; if an assignment should get lost in the
shuffle (or if a file server in the lab should crash, which has happened
in the past), we'll expect you to be able to supply a replacement easily.  
 
 If you find yourself having trouble or getting
behind, speak with the instructor.  But  never  take the shortcut
of copying someone else's work and turning it in; the consequences can
be far worse than just a low score on one assignment.  The ICS department
takes academic honesty very seriously; for a more complete discussion, see
the ICS academic honesty policy:  
 http://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/policies/index.php#03   .  
 
  Approximate course outline:  
        
  Week   
 
  Date   
 
  Topic   
 
  Readings*   
         
  1.    
 
 24 June    
 
 Introduction to the course and HCI 
Conceptual models and metaphors   
 
 1 
2   
   
    
 
 26 June    
  Cognitive foundations: memory, learning, vision, movement, language, typography   
 
    3     
   
 2.   
 
 1 July    
  How interactions affect users; collaboration and social interaction; interaction styles   
  4, 5, 6  
   
    
 
 3 July    
  Interaction devices; design process   
  9, 10  
   
  3.    
 
 8 July    
  Design process: needs and requirements, data gathering and analysis; prototyping   
  11, 7, 8  
   
    
 
 10 July    
 
  Midterm</strong>   
 
  
   
 4.   
 
 15 July    
  Design process (continued)    
   
   
    
 
 17 July    
  Evaluation   
  12, 13, 14, 15  
   
  5.    
 
 22 July    
  Guidelines for hypermedia, feedback, errors, help, menus, forms, screens, typography   
   
   
    
 
 24 July    
  Users with disabilities; information visualization; PowerPoint issues; epilogue   
  Tufte readings  
   
 6.   
  29 July   
   Final Exam </strong>   
 
  
    * Chapters shown are in the Preece/Rogers/Sharp text.
 Read the Tufte monographs whenever you like, but before the last class meeting. 
 
  Acknowledgements:   Alfred Kobsa and
Nayla Nassif generously contributed materials to this course.  In particular,
Prof. Kobsa's original slides are available on line at    www.ics.uci.edu/~kobsa/courses/ICS104/course-notes/notes-all.pdf   .
Please send any comments or questions to    kay@uci.edu   
rather than to Prof. Kobsa directly.  
 </body> 