 Copyright Protection<body>

              
       
       Scott Jordan       
               Department of Computer Science  
            University of California, Irvine 
           
           
     
      
           
                     
                       Copyright Protection Case Study   
                            
               
           
      Copyright is an established legal concept in the United States. See the wikipedia pages on  copyright  and on  copyright infringement  for an overview. Copyright infringement on the Internet has become an issue of intense debate. You will likely be most familiar with online copyright infringement as it applies to music and movies, but the concept also applies to other types of online material. 
       In this case study, we will consider online piracy legislation recently debated in Congress. We will consider the Senate version called S.968 The Protect-IP Act (ProtectIP). See the wikipedia page on  The Protect IP Act  for an overview. (There was also a version in the House called H.R.3261  The Stop Online Piracy Act  (SOPA), but if differed somewhat from the Senate version.) 
       We will consider only the parts of the Senate bill that concern Domain Name Servers. We will not consider the effect on websites, search engines, or advertisers.  
       Here are materials to prepare for the case study: 
         My slides  from lecture.
                  Read the Congressional Research Service's  A Legal Analysis of S.968, the Protect IP Act  to get an introduction to bill and the issues surrounding it. This report was prepared for members of Congress to learn about the issue. 
         From the  ProtectIP bill , read some of the definitions on pages 32-34 (including "Internet site dedicated to infringing activities" and "nondomestic domain name"), and read the portions that pertain to domain name servers and domain name registrars (including pages 34-39). 
         From the  report produced by the Senate Judiciary Committee , read the background and purposes on pages 1-10 and the summary of the portions that pertain to domain name servers and domain name registrars on pages 16-18. 
         Finally, review Lobbyists arguments for or against bill in the  Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the topic . View the video (skip the first 19 minutes) and/or read their written statements. 
        There are a few studies of online copyright infringement, e.g.  this report by Envisional , and  this dissertation by Alexandre Mateus . 
       You'll be able to find many arguments for and against the proposed legislation online. Here are a few: 
        Opposition from Public Knowledge, e.g.  here . 
         Opposition from the Internet Society, e.g.  here . 
         Support from the Information Technology &amp; Innovation Foundation, e.g.  here . 
         Debates on the PBS Newshour,  here  and  here . 
         Most major newspapers have news articles and/or editorials, e.g. the  Los Angeles Times  
          If you are a Lobbyist: </strong> 
      Pretend you are trying to convince Congress of your position. Your classmates are Senators. 
       You should argue for or against sections of the Senate bill that pertain to domain name servers and doman name registrars. "Copyright Protection Pro" means you should argue for these sections. "Copyright Protection Con" means you should argue against these sections. 
       Quickly and concisely, define your position. Don't assume that the Senators know what the issue is or what your position is. 
       Present your most persuasive arguments in the most powerful manner you can. However, be accurate. 
       Include technical, economic, and public policy aspects. You don't need to answer all of the following questions, but you should have at least one technical argument, at least one economic argument, and at least one public policy argument. 
       Technical questions:  If Protect-IP were law, what would be the effect on:
            DNS registrars inside the United States? 
             DNS registrars outside the United States? 
             Domain Name Servers inside the United States? 
             Domain Name Servers outside the United States? 
              
           If Protect-IP were law, what would be the effect on:  
            an Internet user in the United States who is attempting to access a website inside the Unites States that provides .torrent files for copyrighted music and videos? 
             an Internet user in the United States who is attempting to access a website outside the Unites States that provides .torrent files for copyrighted music and videos? 
             
       Economic questions:  Is peer-to-peer file sharing a public good? 
           Are there positive or negative externalities? 
            
       Public policy questions:
          Are the Protect-IP restrictions good or bad for society? 
           What is the Fair Use doctrine, and how would Protect-IP affect my ability to make information available to the class? 
          
          If you are a Staffer: </strong> 
      Try to convince your Senator what is best for your constituents. 
       You can argue that they should vote for the sections of the Senate bill that pertain to domain name servers and doman name registrars, that they should vote against the sections of the Senate bill that pertain to domain name servers and doman name registrars, or that they should amend these sections in some specific way. 
       Quickly and concisely, define your position. Assume that the class has heard the Lobbyist arguments. 
       Include technical, economic, and public policy aspects. You don't need to answer all of the following questions, but you should have at least one technical argument, at least one economic argument, and at least one public policy argument. 
       Technical questions:
            Would these provisions be effective? 
             What types of reasonable activities will be prohibited and/or what types of unreasonable activities will be allowed? 
            
       Economic questions:
          Is peer-to-peer file sharing a public good? 
           Are there positive or negative externalities? 
          
       Public policy questions:
          Would Protect-IP decrease or increase overall consumer utility? 
             How should the movie industry avoid the decrease in sales experienced by the music industry? 
          
           
      
        Scott Jordan   
     last modified January 10, 2017 
      UCI  
      •  CS  •  Networked Systems   
    </body> 