 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  June 13,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         Levorato receives prestigious Hellman Fellowship
</strong>
              The computer science professor will use his fellowship to develop a "smart" community network.    
                  
  
Assistant professor of computer science  Marco Levorato</strong> has been named a  Hellman Fellow  for the 2016-17 academic year. The prestigious fellowship recognizes early career faculty members who show tremendous promise in their field, and helps to support their scholarly endeavors with up to $50,000 in funding.

  
 Levorato  will use his fellowship to support his Internet of Things (IoT)-related project, “The Path Towards Smart Interconnected Communities.” He hopes to probe the growing network of everyday objects equipped with microcontrollers, transceivers for digital communication and other communicative tools to “exploit a huge amount and variety of sensed data to extract relevant information with the possibility to act in real time to optimize specific processes,” according to the project proposal.

  
The project will take a particular interest in IoT in an urban context, with the aim of testing out a “Smart City” concept, where citizens are empowered “with the ability to provide direct feedback on services, infrastructures, and neighborhoods, thus creating a virtuous cycle between technology, citizens, and the city as a whole.”

  
“My objective is to facilitate the inclusion of citizens as the central component of city administration and systems,” Levorato says. “The fellowship will be used to develop a new link between citizens, technology and citywide services.”

  
Levorato joined UCI in 2013. He received his doctorate in electrical engineering at the University of Padova, Italy, in 2009.
 Warren and Chris Hellman  founded the Hellman Fellows program in 1994 to help fund junior faculty research at universities. The Hellman Fellow Fund has supported more than 850 junior faculty members and now provides graduate awards to support doctoral research in addition to university faculty.

  
For more information on the 2016-17 Hellman Fellows, view the official  UCI media release .



   Levorato receives prestigious Hellman Fellowship
    
                &lt; Previous 
                 UPDATE: Franz, Dourish formally recognized as ACM Fellows

              
                Next &gt; 
                 NSF awards Dourish $195,000 for software studies-centric research
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 