 press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Press releases  


     
 Press release 

 
 





  June 2,  2004</strong>  UCI School of ICS named in honor of business leader and philanthropist Donald Bren</strong>   The Irvine Company chairman to be recognized at June 9 groundbreaking ceremony for school's state-of-the-art research facility 
  
  UC Irvine's nationally ranked School of Information and Computer Science will celebrate a new name, the promise of a new home, the generosity of its major benefactor and the appointment of its first dean at a June 9 campus ceremony for ICS supporters, including civic, business and political leaders.
  
  The first school of its kind in the University of California system will be renamed the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences, honoring Orange County business leader and philanthropist Donald Bren, chairman of The Irvine Company. Bren made a $20 million gift to ICS last December that equaled the largest gift ever to UCI.
  
  "This school naming is a fitting and enduring tribute to Mr. Bren. His transformational gift is helping to create a national model for information and computer science research and education, and further strengthens UC Irvine's position among the nation's best research universities," said Chancellor Ralph J. Cicerone, who will participate in the ceremony along with Bren, UC Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs M.R.C. Greenwood, and ICS Dean Debra J. Richardson.
  
  At the luncheon ceremony, ground will be broken for the school's new, six-story, 138,000-square-foot research and classroom facility. The building is being financed largely by the passage in March of Proposition 55 and its companion initiative in November 2002, Proposition 47, which authorized funds to build, repair and improve the state's public education facilities. It is scheduled for completion in 2006 and will be named Bren Hall.
  
  Bren's $20 million gift, administered through the Donald Bren Foundation, provides more than $18 million to create 10 endowed chairs for distinguished faculty - an unprecedented number in a single gift to UCI - and enables ICS to compete for the world's top computer scientists. The balance of the gift creates an endowed fund for excellence, enabling ICS to develop and advance interdisciplinary and university-industry collaborations emphasizing new research and enhanced technology transfer efforts.
  
  "I am honored to have my name and support associated with the first computer science school in the UC system," said Bren. "It is my hope and expectation that this school - and what it produces in the way of human capital and technological innovation - will be the force behind future breakthroughs in education, science and business that will lift our standard of living and our quality of life."
  
  Bren's gift was made anonymously last December to enable ICS to begin recruiting while it organized as a new school, put in place its first dean, planned for its new main building and gained momentum for an effort to raise funds to equip the facility. The school expects to name the first of the distinguished endowed chair holders, each of whom will carry the title of Donald Bren Professor, in the near future.
  
  "Mr. Bren's foresight and generosity have enabled us to invest in our intellectual capital, continue to drive innovation and accelerate our advancement among the top computer science programs," said Richardson, who was named the Ted and Janice Smith Dean of ICS in March. "We are delighted to celebrate the culmination of these achievements by permanently honoring the man who helped begin a new era for our school and is supporting our continued growth and excellence."
  
  Bren has donated approximately $40 million to UCI since 1984, and has endowed more permanent faculty chairs than anyone in the campus's history. In 1988, he established the Donald Bren Endowment to help UCI successfully compete for the nation's most distinguished faculty and achieve its goal of becoming one of the country's premier research universities. The endowment already supports 13 endowed chairs in the arts and sciences, including those held by such internationally recognized researchers as Nobel Prize-winning chemist F. Sherwood Rowland, National Medal of Science recipient Francisco Ayala and world-renowned choreographer Donald McKayle. The endowed faculty positions in ICS also will be supported by the Donald Bren Endowment.
  
  In 2001, Bren's support led to naming of the Claire Trevor School of the Arts - after his late stepmother, the Academy Award-winning actress - and helped renovate the Claire Trevor Theatre. His numerous additional contributions helped build the Bren Events Center and Beckman Laser Institute at UCI, and provided support to the Graduate School of Management and The UCI Foundation.
  
  "The field of information and computer science continues to grow exponentially in applications and sophistication across industry and government globally. Donald Bren's extraordinary gift will enable ICS to elevate and expand dramatically its faculty capabilities to keep pace with the field," said UCI Foundation Chair Ted Smith.
  
  About the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences: The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences is the first independent computer science school within the UC system and one of the fastest-growing programs of its kind in the nation. Elevated from department to school status in December 2002, information and computer sciences enrollment at UCI has grown by more than 125 percent since 1998, to more than 2,400 undergraduate and graduate students. With experts in areas ranging from embedded computer systems and networking to bioinformatics and the social impacts of computing, the school currently ranks 15th among all public university computer science graduate programs, according to U.S. News &amp; World Report.
  
  About the University of California, Irvine: The University of California, Irvine is a top-ranked public university dedicated to research, scholarship and community. Founded in 1965, UCI is among the fastest-growing University of California campuses, with approximately 24,000 undergraduate and graduate students and about 1,300 faculty members. The third-largest employer in dynamic Orange County, UCI contributes an annual economic impact of $3 billion.
  
  Event details: The June 9 naming and groundbreaking ceremony will begin at 11:30 a.m. between the existing ICS main building and the UCI University Club. The luncheon ceremony will be attended by invited campus and community leaders, students and alumni. The event is not open to the public, but representatives of the media are invited. Contact Michelle Williams at (949) 824-1562 for more information and to RSVP.   
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 