 Chimera 2.0 Tutorial<body>
 

     

   The following is a tutorial for   Chimera 2.0 Beta
  . 
 
 

  Welcome to Chimera, the only freely available open hypermedia system in
existence.  Chimera allows your applications to linked together through a 
series of hypermedia links, even when the items you wish to link are 
plain ASCII text or images.  
 

  The purpose of this tutorial is to give you a set of
example which demonstrate how you can download and use Chimera.
The tutorial is divided between two parts: Part 1 gives an example
of how download and run Chimera, Part 2 demonstrates some 
features of Chimera.  This tutorial will not provide examples on all of 
Chimera's features -- other documentation is available which discusses 
Chimera's features in more depth.
 

  Part 1: Chimera Basics 

 This first part of the tutorial is for all users of Chimera.  
The example below will show you the basics in how to
set up Chimera, run it, and then to run a client application which
will demonstrate creation of anchors, links, and a link traversal.
 

  
 Preparing your System for Chimera
   guides you in what Chimera needs in order to run on your
system.  

 
 Downloading Chimera
   explained how to download Chimera 2.0 from this website 
to your system. 

   

 
 Creating a Chimera Website
    

 
 Creating New Hyperwebs
   

   

 
 Starting the Chimera Server on the Client Side
   

 
 
Hooking up the Chimera Server to a Chimera Website and Creating a Link
   

   

 
 Downloading the Jimage Client 
   

 
 Using the Jimage Client
   

       
	 
	Disconnecting and Reconnecting the Jimage Client to Chimera
	   

	 
	 
	Making Anchors in Jimage and Connecting them to Links
	   

	 
	 Link Traversal
	   
       Part 2: Chimera Features 

   
Chimera 2.0 has features which allow you create more complex hypermedia 
relationships than the simple link of the example in Part 1.  
In the second part of this tutorial you are given sets of examples 
which demonstrate some but not all of Chimera's features.  These 
examples build on each other so you may have to review the 
example in Part 1 in order to set up your system for 
 the examples.  
 

 N-ary Links 

  Chimera supports n-ary links.  An n-ary link means that your anchors 
can be grouped by links that can have as many anchors as you wish connected 
with them.  This is not the case with HTML where links are one-way.  
We believe that n-ary links will allow you to group related information
together there by aiding you in managing complex relationships between the
items you link together.
 

 
You may use Jimage to see an example of how to make an n-ary link.  This 
example will create an anchor on a new image, connect it to the link
you made with bill.gif and earthrise.gif in the previous 
example.  You will then traverse this link by using Jimage.
 

  
     What you should have for this example
       

     
     
    Connecting anchors in the new image to the previous active link
       

     
     
    Perform a link traversal between the images
       
  Hierarchical Webs 

  Chimera 2.0 allows for hierarchical hyperwebs.  
In Chimera, the notion of a hyperweb is a grouping of hypermedia 
concepts which are related to each other.  These concepts are part
of Chimera's hypermedia model of the world.  For more information about 
Chimera concepts follow this link for 
 
a technical overview of Chimera concepts.
 
 

  The two examples below show how the hyperwebs, which are
organized hierarchically in Chimera can be used to form different 
contexts for the items you hook together and can be used to pass on 
information from one hyperweb to another.  
 


  Switching contexts using Hyperwebs 

  Switching from one Hyperweb to another changes the context of 
hypermedia relationships you have in them.
 The following example shows how this context
switching can be used.
 
  
     
    You should have these items in place for this example.
       

     
     
    Shifting to a different web.
       

     
     
    Making Anchors and Links on the new web.
       
  Creating a Subweb and Inheriting Anchors and Link 

  Chimera 2.0 allows you to pass on anchor and link information
to another web through the creation of subwebs.  When you create
a subweb of a web, the subweb inherits all the anchors and 
links of the parent web.  In this example, you will inherit the 
anchors and link from the previous example's flight_web.
 

  
     
    Creating a subweb of the flight web and switching to it.
       

     
     
    Adding an anchor to the inherited anchors and link.
       
  Importing and Exporting between Websites 

  You can import or export the Chimera databases of a Website through the
Import and Export functions found on the Hyperweb Server.  You may use 
these functions as means to store different states of your Chimera Website
through time.  Chimera 2.0 uses XML as the format for the files.
 

  
     
    Storing a website using Export and Importing a website.
       
   Delayed Link traversal 

 Chimera allows you to launch applications to complete Link traversals.
In order to to this, you must have a file configured in your home
directory.  This file indicates what program to launch for a specific
traversal event.  This file may be configured to suit your system.
 

  
	 
	Preparing for delayed Link traversal.
       
	 
	 
	Launching an application and completing a delayed link traversal.
       
 </body> 