 Social Event – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         

                 
                     

                         
                    
                                   Home     News   Social Event                                      
                                  Category Archives 
                         

                         
                             
                                 13 Articles                              
                         

                     
                 

             
    
     
         
             

                

 
        
             Study Session 

             

             

            
               Social Event  
	  WICS Meeting    by Ivan Law 

            
                        on 05/11/2015 

    
     

         On February 11, WICS hosted a study session. Since it was midterms week, WICS decided it would be beneficial for members to collaborate and study together. Upperclassmen helped the underclassmen out with work they didn’t understand while snacking ice cream and cookies. About over 10 people showed up and had a great time eating ice cream and studying together! 
                 
                                     
                         2</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             WICS First General Meeting and Mentorship Mixer ’14 

             

             

            
               Social Event  
	  WICS Meeting    by admin 

            
                        on 11/15/2014 

    
     

          Written by: Gurveen Sekhon   
                                                                                                                                         « prev        1     2     3     4     5        next »    (19 Photos)  
 On Monday October 6th, WICS held our first general meeting of the year and kicked off the 2014-15  Mentorship Program . We gave a brief overview of what our club is about and introduced this year’s board members. All this information can also be found on our website in case you missed the meeting. There were also prizes given out for the raffle right before the Mentorship Mixer began. There were prizes such as Google blankets, Bags full of swag, T-shirts, a copy World of Warcraft, a Kindle Paperwhite, and much more! 
 Our Mentorship Program had a really strong kick off this year. A lot of students and mentors came out and got to know each other in groups based on where their interests laid. Make sure to join next year’s Mentorship Program, whether as a mentor or a mentee. 
                 
                                     
                         30</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             First Annual WICS Games 

             

             

            
               Social Event    by admin 

            
                        on 11/15/2014 

    
     

                                                                                                                                                        « prev        1     2     3     4     5        next »    (20 Photos)  
 On Wednesday, October 1st WICS held its first ever WICS Games! Over 40 students and 7 teams participated in our games to be the first team to ever win WICS Games. Each team worked together along with a mentor for each team to solve rounds of questions with varying level of difficulty to accumulate points to win. Subway sandwiches were served for dinner to munch on while solving problems! Everyone that came to our meeting received really cool Google swag! 
 Make sure to come out to our annual WICS Games and start the year by meeting many people and having fun! 
                 
                                     
                         66</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             Studying and Interview Help from WICS 

             

             

            
               Social Event    by admin 

            
                        on 06/19/2014 

    
     

         On Thursday April 24th and May 8th, WICS hosted a Study Session that also consisted of interview help in order to prepare for upcoming midterms and career fairs. 
 Study groups were formed by classes, there were tutors that came by to help anyone who was struggling with specific topics. 
 At the same time, for those who came by for interview help, WICS prepared common tech interview questions for them to solve. Interview experience and questions were shared amongst those who have been in one before.WICS hopes that those who came got to learn something new and useful towards their classes and finding a job. 
                 
                                     
                         9</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             WICS Attends CWIC SoCal! 

             

             

            
               Info Session  
	  Social Event  
	  Workshop    by admin 

            
                        on 04/15/2014 

    
     

           </strong>                                                                                                                     « prev        1     2     3     4        next »    (16 Photos)  
 WICS members got the opportunity to attend the Celebration of Women in Computing in Southern California (CWIC-SoCal) Conference held on April 5 th  and 6 th . WICS provided attendees reimbursement for signup fees as well as free transportation! 
 The event kicked off with a welcoming ceremony that consisted of talks from inspirational women in the computing field. The talks were held by a broad scope of women all united by the core concept of computing. The backgrounds of these women ranged from industry to research. In fact, Gloria Mark, a professor from the Informatics department of UCI also held a talk of her research of multitasking. 
 The WICS members learned about grad school, what these speakers do, and about women in the tech field in general. There was also a Q/A panel with company representatives as well as a mentorship panel. At the end of the first day, CWIC-SoCal also held an Academic/Career Fair with quite a few company booths, swag, and networking opportunities. That night ended with a Lego Challenge and a game of CS jeopardy. The winners of the lego competition, 5 groups of 5, all received $25 Amazon gift cards, congrats to one of the WICS’s teams that won! 
 All in all, it was a very exciting weekend that consisted of fun and networking with other women students and professionals in computing. Next year, WICS will be hosting  init(Together)  once again, stay tuned and don’t miss out! 
                 
                                     
                         27</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             Studying with WICS 

             

             

            
               Social Event    by admin 

            
                        on 02/17/2014 

    
     

         Over 20 people came on Monday, February 10th to join WICS for a study session. Topics such as ICS 45C, ICS 6B, and many other classes were being covered by some students that were willing to help teach those in need of help. Popcorn and soda were provided by WICS to help replenish some lost brain cells in the process. Even though it was a study session, there were still some socializing and de-stressing involved. 
 WICS would like to thank all those that came to help others in their studying and hope that everyone did well on their midterms! 
                                              « prev        1     2        next »    (6 Photos)  
                 
                                     
                         15</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             Food and Fun with WICS 

             

             

            
               Social Event    by admin 

            
                        on 02/11/2014 

    
     

          </strong>On Monday, February 3rd, over 40 people came to de-stress at the potluck with all the ICS clubs over some delicious food and fun boardgames! There was a variety of food such as sushi, buffalo wild wings, dumplings, curry, chicken alfredo, bacon siracha cookies, and cake pops! Besides food, there were also groups of people playing  Apples to Apples ,  Cards Against Humanity , and  Uno ! It was a fun and stress-free night full of some nice home-made food and all of your fellow ICS friends; we will be having more potlucks later in the school year, stay tuned if you want to come join the fun next time! 
                                                     « prev        1     2        next »    (7 Photos)  
                 
                                     
                         30</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             Movie Night and Boardgames with WICS 

             

             

            
               Social Event    by admin 

            
                        on 02/04/2014 

    
     

                                    
 Monday, January 27th, WICS hosted a movie night for over 20 people that came to de-stress from all the midterms they’ve had/about to have! There was popcorn, pizza, and snacks provided while  The Princess Bride  was playing. A group of people were also enjoying a fun game of Monopoly! It was a nice relaxing night that helped keep people’s minds off of homework and exams; WICS will be having more social events like this in the future! 
                 
                                     
                         13</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             First WICS Meeting of Winter ’14 

             

             

            
               Social Event  
	  WICS Meeting    by admin 

            
                        on 01/11/2014 

    
     

         Thursday, January 10, 2014. Are you tired of going to parties and thinking to yourself, “Uggh, what a sausage fest? Like seriously, enough with the testosterone! Where my ladies at?” FEAR NOT, women in computer science, because on this unassuming Thursday night, 40+ beautiful ladies who are pursuing a career in an emerging field that offers excellent job stability gathered to throw the most epic of ragers. There was pizza; there was soda; there were animal crackers, board games, and there was even a powerpoint presentation! Dancing Queen WICS’s President Angela Li teased us with events to come. Projects committee chairwomen announced this quarter’s Android App Development extravaganza, and someone even ALMOST built a hotel on Boardwalk in the first forty minutes of Monopoly. If you made the mistake of not attending, don’t be sad. There will be another! Check Facebook for updates about WICS! Happy Week 1! 
                                                            « prev        1     2        next »    (8 Photos)  
                 
                                     
                         19</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             Week 8: Thanksgiving Potluck 

             

             

            
               Social Event    by admin 

            
                        on 11/24/2013 

    
     

                                                      « prev        1     2        next »    (6 Photos)  
 Wednesday, November 20th, WICS co-hosted a Potluck with other ICS clubs on campus. The movie of choice: Iron Man 3, was being played on the projector as over 40 attendees came to have some fun and take a break from school! People got to eat some delicious food and chat with members from other ICS clubs. 
                 
                                     
                         8</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
             
                 
                       1  
	  2  
	  Next     
  
             
         
 
         
     

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 
</body> 