 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
Zonotopes
 
   The centroid of points with approximate weights .  M. Bern ,
D. Eppstein, 
 L. J. Guibas ,
J. Hershberger, 
 S. Suri , and 
 J. Wolter .   3rd Eur. Symp. Algorithms, 
Corfu, 1995 . 
Springer,  Lecture Notes in
Comp. Sci.  979, 1995, pp. 460–472.
 
Given a set of points with weights that are not known precisely,
but are known to fall within some range, considers the possible
weighted centroids arising from different choices of weights
in each range.  The combinatorics of this problem are closely
connected with those of
 zonotopes .
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Zonohedra and Zonotopes . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 95-53 , ICS, UCI, 1995.  Mathematica in Education and Research  5 (4): 15–21, 1996.
 
I use Mathematica to construct  zonotopes 
and display zonohedra.
Many examples are shown, including one used for a lower bound
in " The
centroid of points with approximate weights ".
This paper is also available in
 HTML  and 
  Mathematica  notebook  formats.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Optimization over zonotopes and training support vector machines .  M. Bern 
and D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.CG/0105017 .   7th Worksh. Algorithms and Data
Structures,  Providence, Rhode
Island, 2001 . 
Springer,  Lecture Notes in
Comp. Sci.  2125, 2001, pp. 111–121.
 
We use the
 ellipsoid method 
to develop (theoretically) efficient algorithms
for optimizing linear functions on intersections of
 zonotopes ,
and show how to apply this to train soft-margin support vector classifiers.
  
( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 WADS talk slides  --
 ACM DL )
  
    The minimum expectation selection problem . 
D. Eppstein and
 G. Lueker . 
10th Int. Conf. Random Structures and Algorithms, Poznan, Poland, August
2001.  arXiv:cs.DS/0110011 .  
 Random Structures and Algorithms  21: 278–292, 2002 .
 
We define the min-min expectation selection problem (resp. max-min
expectation selection problem) to be that of selecting k out of n given
discrete probability distributions, to minimize (resp. maximize) the
expectation of the minimum value resulting when independent random
variables are drawn from the selected distributions. Such problems
can be viewed as a simple form of two-stage stochastic programming.
We show that if d,
the number of values in the support of the distributions, is a constant
greater than 2, the min-min expectation problem is NP-complete but
admits a fully polynomial time approximation scheme. For d an arbitrary
integer, it is NP-hard to approximate the min-min expectation problem
with any constant approximation factor. The max-min expectation problem
is polynomially solvable for constant d; we leave open its complexity
for variable d. We also show similar results for binary selection
problems in which we must choose one distribution from each of n pairs
of distributions.
  
( BibTeX  --
 ACM DL )
  
     
 Geometry  --
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 