 graduation and beyond @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  


     
 Graduation and Beyond 

 
 

  
   
      Congratulations to all 2015-16 ICS Honors and Awards recipients! </strong>  
      
    »</strong>  Graduation Requirements </strong> 
 You must meet the following requirements: 
   University : completion of all University Requirements as outlined in the  General Catalogue . 
  School and Major : completion of all courses required for your School and Major 
  Units : credit for a minimum of 180 quarter units. 
  GPA : 
  2.0 GPA cumulative 
 2.0 GPA in your major 
 2.0 GPA in the upper-division courses in your major. 
  
    Senior Residency : 36 of the final 45 units completed for the bachelor’s degree must be earned in residence at the UCI campus  (exceptions include courses taken through the Education Abroad Program, the UCDC Academic Internship Program, or the UC Center Sacramento Scholar Intern Program). 
  If you have any questions about requirements or your degree audit, please meet with a peer advisor or an academic counselor as soon as possible. You should be getting graduation checks at least twice a year as a senior. 
  Please be aware, however, that  students </strong>are ultimately responsible for making sure they are on track and indeed meet all graduate requirements.  
   
    »</strong>  Applying for Graduation</strong> 
 Graduation is not automatic! You must submit the online Application for Graduation, which is found on  Student Access . 
 Review your degree audit carefully to make sure you will meet all University, Breadth, School and Major requirements. If there is a discrepancy or error, meet with a peer advisor immediately. Do not send an e-mail. 
 When you fill out the application, be sure to indicate minors, concentrations and specializations that you may be completing. Please also ensure that your diploma notification address and telephone number are correct. 
 Once the online Application has been submitted, only a Bren School academic counselor may make changes to it. 
 The Bren School's graduate application deadlines for 2016-17 are as follows. ALL courses must be completed by the end of the quarter in which you intend/apply to graduate. 
     Deadline</strong> 
  Quarter</strong> 
  Notes</strong> 
   September 11, 2016 
 Fall 
   
   December 2, 2016 
 Winter 
 If you intend to participate in the Commencement Ceremony 
   December 2, 2016 
 Winter 
 If you DO NOT intend to participate in the Commencement Ceremony 
   December 2, 2016 
 Spring 
 If you intend to participate in the Commencement Ceremony 
   March 17, 2017 
 Spring 
 If you DO NOT intend to participate in the Commencement Ceremony 
   December 2, 2016 
 Summer 
 If you intend to participate in the Commencement Ceremony 
   March 17, 2017 
 Summer 
 If you DO NOT intend to participate in the Commencement Ceremony 
    NOTE: If you submit an application for graduation past the deadline listed for the quarter above, it will be moved to the following quarter. 
   
    »</strong>  Commencement and Honors </strong> 
  Commencement : Visit the official website of the  UCI Commencement Office  for full information 
  Latin Honors : No more than 12% of  seniors graduating during an academic year (summer to spring) will receive Latin honors: 
  1 percent summa cum laude 
 3 percent magna cum laude 
 8 percent cum laude 
 
Selection is based on the School’s winter quarter, rank-ordered grade point averages. To be eligible for honors at graduation:
  You must have an application to graduate on file by the first week of February of the academic year you intend to graduate (e.g. if you are graduating Spring 2010, the application must be submitted by February of that same year) 
 You must be able to verify completion of all course work by the end of spring of the academic year you intend to graduate 
 You must be officially declared as a Bren School of ICS major 
 Seventy-two (72) quarter units in residence at a UC campus must be completed by the end of winter quarter of the academic year you intend to graduate.  
 Any corrections to your academic record must be processed by the Registrar's Office by March of the intended graduation year. 
  Note that latin honors designations are finalized  after  Spring grades are determined. Students who are eligible for latin honors based on Winter grades may see their designation go up, down, or off the latin honors scale. 
 Summer graduates participating in the June commencement ceremony prior to their date of graduation are not eligible for honors for that academic year; they will instead be considered for the following academic year. 
   
    »</strong>  Transcript and Diploma </strong> 
 Degrees are posted to official transcripts approximately six to seven weeks after the end of the quarter in which they are conferred.  
 Diplomas will be available approximately four months after the quarter in which the degree was awarded.  The Registrar’s Office will notify you by mail when your diploma is available. More information is available on the  Registrar's website . 
 Upon graduation, academic records may not be changed. It is your responsibility to check the accuracy of your academic record, and to resolve all I and NR grades, before you graduate. 
    And After Graduation...</strong>  


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 