 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
Parametric optimization
 
These papers concern problems in which some parameter or parameters
is free, and one must explore the space of different solutions
obtained for different values of these parameters.
The  k-set problem  can be viewed
in this framework as a form of parametric median-finding,
in which the set of elements have values that are linear functions
of a single time parameter; I have also looked at other
similar parametric matroid problems as well as some parametric geometry
problems.
 
    Visibility with a moving point of view .  M. Bern ,
 D.P. Dobkin ,
D. Eppstein, and 
 R. Grossman .  
 1st ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete Algorithms, 
San Francisco, 1990, pp. 107–118 .   Algorithmica  11: 360–378, 1994 .
 
An investigation of 3d visibility problems in which the viewing
position moves along a straight flight path, with various
assumptions on the complexity of the viewed scene.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
    On the number of minimal 1-Steiner trees .  B. Aronov ,
 M. Bern ,
and D. Eppstein.   Disc. &amp; Comp. Geom.  12: 29–34, 1994 .
 
Given a  d -dimensional set of  n  points,
the number of combinatorially different
 minimum spanning trees  that can be formed
by adding one more point is within a polylogarithmic factor of
 n d . 
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Geometric lower bounds for parametric matroid optimization . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 95-11 , ICS, UCI, 1995.   27th ACM Symp. Theory of Computing,  Las Vegas, 1995, pp. 662–671 .   Disc. Comp. Geom.  20: 463–476, 1998 .
 
Considers graphs in which edge weights are linear functions of time.
Shows nonlinear lower bounds on the number of different
 minimum spanning trees  appearing
over time by translation from geometric problem of lower envelopes of line segments.
A matroid generalization has a better lower bound coming from many faces
in line arrangements, and the uniform matroid problem is
equivalent to the geometric  k -set problem.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 MIT hypertext bibliography )
  
    The centroid of points with approximate weights .  M. Bern ,
D. Eppstein, 
 L. J. Guibas ,
J. Hershberger, 
 S. Suri , and 
 J. Wolter .   3rd Eur. Symp. Algorithms, 
Corfu, 1995 . 
Springer,  Lecture Notes in
Comp. Sci.  979, 1995, pp. 460–472.
 
Given a set of points with weights that are not known precisely,
but are known to fall within some range, considers the possible
weighted centroids arising from different choices of weights
in each range.  The combinatorics of this problem are closely
connected with those of
 zonotopes .
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
  
    Choosing subsets with maximum weighted average . 
D. Eppstein and 
 
D. S. Hirschberg .  Tech. Rep. 95-12, ICS, UCI, 1995 .  
 5th MSI Worksh. on Computational Geometry , 1995, pp. 7–8 .   J. Algorithms  24: 177–193, 1997 .
 
Uses geometric optimization techniques to find, among  n  weighted values,
the  k  to drop so as to maximize the weighted average of the remaining values.
The feasibility test for the corresponding decision problem involves
 k -sets in a dual line arrangement.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Full paper  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Using sparsification for parametric minimum spanning tree problems .  
D. Fernández-Baca ,
 
G. Slutzki , and D. Eppstein.   5th Scand. Worksh. Algorithm Theory,  Reykjavik, 1996 . 
Springer,  Lecture Notes in
Comp. Sci.  1097, 1996, pp. 149–160.   Nordic J. Computing 
3 (4): 352–366, 1996 (special issue for 5th SWAT). 
 
Given a graph with edge weights that are linear functions of a parameter,
finds the sequence of
 minimum spanning trees  produced as the parameter varies,
in total time O(mn log n), by combining ideas
from " Sparsification "
and " Geometric lower bounds ".
Also solves various problems of optimizing the parameter value,
including one closely related to that in
" Choosing subsets with maximum weighted average ".
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 MIT hypertext bibliography  --
 ACM DL (SWAT)  --
 ACM DL (NJC) )
  
    Computational geometry and parametric matroid optimization . 
D. Eppstein.  Invited talk ,
5th Int. Symp. Parametric Optimization, Chiba, Japan, 1997.
 
This talk surveys some connections from computational geometry to
parametric matroids: the results of my paper
" Geometric lower bounds ",
new upper bounds from a paper by Tamal Dey,
and a problem from constructive solid geometry
with the potential to lead to stronger lower bounds.
  
    Parametric and kinetic minimum spanning trees .  P. K. Agarwal ,
D. Eppstein,
 L. J. Guibas ,
and
 M. R. Henzinger .  
 39th IEEE Symp. Foundations of Comp. Sci. , 1998, pp. 596–605. .
 
We describe algorithms for maintaining the
 minimum spanning tree  in a graph
in which the edge weights are piecewise linear functions of time that
may change unpredictably.  We solve the problem in time
O(n 2/3  polylog n)
per combinatorial change to the tree for general graphs, and in time
O(n 1/4  polylog n) per combinatorial change to the tree for planar graphs.
  ( BibTeX  --
 FOCS '98 talk slides  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Setting parameters by example . 
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.DS/9907001 .   40th
IEEE Symp. Foundations of Comp. Sci. , 1999, pp. 309–318 .  
 SIAM J. Computing  32 (3): 643–653, 2003 .
 
We introduce a class of "inverse parametric optimization"
problems, in which one is given both a parametric optimization problem
and a desired optimal solution; the task is to determine parameter
values that lead to the given solution.  We use
 low-dimensional linear programming 
and geometric sampling techniques to solve
such problems for
 minimum spanning trees ,
 shortest paths , and
other optimal subgraph problems, and discuss applications in
multicast routing, vehicle path planning, resource allocation, and board
game programming.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 ACM DL (FOCS)  --
 ACM DL (SJC) )
  
    The minimum expectation selection problem . 
D. Eppstein and
 G. Lueker . 
10th Int. Conf. Random Structures and Algorithms, Poznan, Poland, August
2001.  arXiv:cs.DS/0110011 .  
 Random Structures and Algorithms  21: 278–292, 2002 .
 
We define the min-min expectation selection problem (resp. max-min
expectation selection problem) to be that of selecting k out of n given
discrete probability distributions, to minimize (resp. maximize) the
expectation of the minimum value resulting when independent random
variables are drawn from the selected distributions. Such problems
can be viewed as a simple form of two-stage stochastic programming.
We show that if d,
the number of values in the support of the distributions, is a constant
greater than 2, the min-min expectation problem is NP-complete but
admits a fully polynomial time approximation scheme. For d an arbitrary
integer, it is NP-hard to approximate the min-min expectation problem
with any constant approximation factor. The max-min expectation problem
is polynomially solvable for constant d; we leave open its complexity
for variable d. We also show similar results for binary selection
problems in which we must choose one distribution from each of n pairs
of distributions.
  
( BibTeX  --
 ACM DL )
  
    The weighted maximum-mean subtree and other bicriterion subtree problems.   J. Carlson
and D. Eppstein.   arXiv:cs.CG/0503023 .  Proc. 10th Scand. Worksh. Algorithm Theory (SWAT 2006) . 
Springer,  Lecture Notes in Comp. Sci.  4059, 2006, pp. 397–408.
 
We give a linear time algorithm for pruning a node-weighted tree to maximize
the average node weight of the pruned subtree; this problem was
previously studied under the less obvious name "The Fractional
Prize-Collecting Steiner Tree Problem on Trees".
  
( BibTeX )
  
    Optimal embedding into star metrics . 
D. Eppstein and
 K. Wortman .  arXiv:0905.0283 . 
Algorithms and Data Structures Symposium (WADS), Banff, Canada (best
paper award). 
Springer,  Lecture Notes in Comp. Sci.  5664, 2009, pp. 290–301.
 
We provide an O(n 3  log 2 n) algorithm for
finding a non-distance-decreasing mapping from a given metric into a
star metric with as small a dilation as possible. The main idea is to
reduce the problem to one of parametric shortest paths in an auxiliary graph.
Specifically, we transform the problem into the parametric negative cycle
detection problem: given a graph in which the edge weights are linear
functions of a parameter λ, find the minimum value of λ
for which the graph contains no negative cycles. We find a new strongly
polynomial time algorithm for this problem, and use it to solve the star
metric embedding problem.
  
( Slides )
  
    Optimal angular resolution for face-symmetric drawings . 
D. Eppstein and
 K. Wortman .  arXiv:0907.5474 .   J. Graph
Algorithms and Applications  15 (4): 551–564, 2011 .
 
We consider drawings of planar partial cubes in which all interior faces are
centrally symmetric convex polygons, as in my previous
paper  Algorithms for Drawing Media . Among all
drawings of this type, we show how to find the one with optimal angular
resolution. The solution involves a transformation from the problem
into the parametric negative cycle detection problem: given a graph in
which the edge weights are linear functions of a parameter λ,
find the minimum value of λ for which the graph contains no
negative cycles.
  
    The parametric closure problem . 
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:1504.04073 . 
14th Algorithms and Data Structures Symp. (WADS 2015), Victoria, BC.  Springer,  Lecture Notes in Comp. Sci.  9214 (2015), pp. 327–338 .
 
We consider the minimum weight closure problem for a partially ordered
set whose elements have weights that vary linearly as a function of a
parameter. For several important classes of partial orders the number of
changes to the optimal solution as the parameter varies is near-linear,
and the sequence of optimal solutions can be found in near-linear time.
  
( Slides )
  
     
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 