 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  February 1,  2017
</strong>
 
      
      
         Data Scientist ranked top U.S. job by Glassdoor
</strong>
          
                    
Data scientist proves to be the top job in America, again. The   Harvard Business Review   named it, “the sexist job of the 21 st  century” back in 2012. Then earlier this week, recruiting website Glassdoor released its annual ranking of the  50 best jobs  in America; of particular interest, the  17 best jobs  that pay over $100,000. On both Glassdoor lists, data scientist was ranked No. 1.

  
Data scientist was reported to have a median base salary of $110,000 and a job satisfaction rating of 4.4 (out of 5). Glassdoor estimates that there are roughly 4,184 current job openings for the position, a good sign for job seekers. In addition to the handsome paycheck and high levels of job satisfaction, data scientists can often work and play in top metropolitan cities, such as New York, Chicago, Seattle, the Bay Area, Honolulu and right here in Irvine.

  
Data science is often a misunderstood, disregarded as a position that works with Excel spredsheets or a last-ditch effort by companies to gain insights from social data; however, data science is neither of these. In fact, data science is an interdisciplinary area of study with a dual emphasis on statistics (and mathematical aspects of data analysis) and computer science (including algorithms, data structures, data management and machine learning). Data scientists use statistical and computing principles to analyze raw data, both big and small, and then process, organize and structure it into meaningful information for industry.

  
Until recently, curating the right skills to fit into this position was a labor unto itself. Then three years ago UC Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences launched the only undergraduate data science degree in the UC system. Today the major prepares students for a career in data analysis, combining foundational  statistical concepts with computational principles from computer science. More information about the B.S. in data science can be found  here .

  
   Data Scientist ranked top U.S. job by Glassdoor
    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Tsudik's biometrics security research paper featured in February issue of CACM

              
                Next &gt; 
                 Global Game Jam connects UCI with OC's game design community
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 