 amenities for alpha-beta<body>
 some amenities for alpha-beta 

The  order  in which the possibilities at a node
are investigated can have a dramatic effect
on the total time complexity of the search.
If a good solution is found relatively early on,
then a relatively larger number of not-as-good subtrees
may be pruned.
 
In the context of the bridge hand evaluation problem,
the set of possibilities at a node is just the set of
cards that may be played at that turn.
 Suit-ordering  specifies the order in which
the 4 suits are considered as a source for the card to be next played.
 Dynamic suit-ordering  redefines the order of the suits
at each turn, thereby taking advantage of the knowledge
of the current suit distribution.
 Rank-ordering  specifies the order of the cards
within a suit.
 Dynamic rank-ordering  takes into account which
cards have already been played during this trick
and/or which cards might yet be played during the subsequent
plays of this trick.
  
If two possibilities,  p1  and  p2 ,
lead to the exact same set of leaf values
then, after determining the results of choosing  p1 ,
there is no need to expand the subtree of possibility  p2 .
In the bridge problem,  rank equivalence 
refers to the fact that playing either one of two cards
will have exactly the same effect.
For example, if North has the 9 and 8 of Clubs, then
playing the 9 will have the same effect as playing the 8.
 Dynamic rank equivalence  refers to the fact that
some cards might initially not be equivalent yet
might subsequently become equivalent.
For example, if initially North has the 9 and 7 of Clubs and East has
the 8 of Clubs then initially the 9 and 7 of Clubs are not equivalent.
However, if East plays the 8 of Clubs on the first trick and
North retains the 9 and 7 of Clubs then the 9 and 7 of Clubs
will be equivalent during the second trick.
  
   
Dan Hirschberg 
Computer Science Department 
University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3425  
 dan at ics.uci.edu  
Last modified: July 1, 1996
</body> 