 Chimera 2 - Client Installation Instructions...<body>

  Client Installation...  

 
This installation guide covers installing Chimera 2.0 clients. Note that
when using these clients, hypermedia services will be unavailable until
a user invokes a Chimera 2.0 Chimera server and uses it to connect to a
Chimera 2.0 website.
 

 Installing the Chimera Shell 

 
The Chimera Shell is a command line interface to the Chimera 2.0 client
server. It presents a prompt to the user, who can then send any Chimera 2.0
API operation to the Chimera server for execution. The Chimera Shell will
display any results returned from the Chimera 2.0 server. In addtion, the
user can register interest in events and the Chimera Shell will display
those events when they are received (asynchrounously!).
 

  Place the Chimera shell archive ( chimsh.tar.gz  in a directory
set aside for Chimera 2.0 clients.
  Uncompress the archive using  gzip -d chimsh.tar.gz;
tar xvf chimsh.tar 
  Edit the Makefile to point to the Chimera 2.0 C API directory.
  Invoke  make .
  Delete the archive file.
   Installing the XEmacs Integration code 

  Place the  chimera.el  file in an easy to remember location (such as
a  bin  directory).
  When launching XEmacs specify the absolute path name of the file using the
 -l  flag.
 
 I.E.  xemacs -l /home/kanderso/bin/chimera.el filename.txt
 
  Xemacs will load the Chimera 2.0 integration code and present a Chimera
menu in its menubar to access Chimera 2.0 services.
   Installing the Java Image viewer 

  Place the jimage archive ( jimage.tar.gz  in a directory
set aside for Chimera 2.0 clients.
  Uncompress the archive using  gzip -d jimage.tar.gz;
tar xvf jimage.tar 
  Edit the Makefile to place the class files in the appropriate place.
  Invoke  make .
  Delete the archive file.
   Installing the Netscape 3.0 Wrapper 

  Place the wrapper archive ( mozillawrapper.tar.gz  in a directory
set aside for Chimera 2.0 clients.
  Uncompress the archive using  gzip -d mozillawrapper.tar.gz;
tar xvf mozillawrapper.tar 
  Edit the Makefile to point to the Chimera 2.0 C API directory.
  Invoke  make .
  Delete the archive file.
       

  This page is part of the  Chimera 
web site. 
Send feedback and questions to  Ken
Anderson . 
 </body> 