 Untitled Document<body>
  Summer 2012 
  —  Information and Computer Sciences  —  UC Irvine  —  David G. Kay  —  Informatics 131   
    Supplementary References on HCI Topics    
   These links and books explain or illustrate some of the topics we've covered or mentioned in class (typically in more detail than we had time for).  They're supplementary, not assigned, unless we say otherwise.  
   New interface technologies 
       Multitouch interface: We see multitouch interfaces now on iPhones and similar devices;  this video  shows Jeff Han of Microsoft and a large multitouch display  
        Surface computing (where the tabletop is the interface): two videos, one  from Microsoft  and one showing the  physical manipulation of objects to generate audio .  
        Multiresolution browsing of images (Microsoft SeaDragon and  Photosynth  projects)  
         BumpTop , an alternative desktop interface where the objects have physical properties (so they behave more realistically than conventional desktop icons). A few items shown here, like the "cover flow" view and pile views) are now available in Mac OS 10.5 (Leopard). Also notice the pie menus.  
      
    Three notable HCI experts: 
       Jakob Nielsen:  www.useit.com   
        Bruce Tognazzini, who founded Apple's Human Interface Group:  www.asktog.com . Of particular interest are his essays on  Fitts' Law  and on Florida's " Butterfly Ballots " in the 2000 election  
        Edward Tufte, the leading figure in information visualization:  edwardtufte.com . His four-volume work is beautifully designed and written, and inexpensive compared to most technical books:  The Visual Display of Quantitative Information ,  Envisioning Information ,  Visual Explanations , and  Beautiful Evidence .  
      
    Human vision: See this  XKCD comic .  
    Information visualization  
       Two collections:  Many Eyes    and    visualcomplexity.com   
        Hans Rosling showing some  compelling visualizations  of data (in the subject area of global development).  
        Bret Victor shows amazing  examples of visualizing code's behavior in real time . (The demo is in the first 35 minutes of the video; after that, he talks more in terms of personal philosophy.)  
      
    Other videos 
        David Pogue  of the  New York Times  on the historical scope of desktop interface design, user frustration, and simplicity. The video includes some joke songs and mild Microsoft-bashing.  
         Jim Chipchase  on cellphone use, especially in the third world. This is an example of anthropological field research in the service of HCI: What do people carry with them?  
        Alan Kay (no relation) gives a historical overview of HCI and his Dynabook concept from 1968 (which is like an iPad today):  Doing with Images Makes Symbols .  
      
    Other web materials 
        Caring for Your Wrists ,
        by TidBITS Publishing.  A two-page poster with good advice on avoiding repetitive
        stress injuries.   
         Typographic Design for Computerized Text ,
        by David G. Kay.  Two pages on the basic principles of typographic readability.  

         Absolute Powerpoint  by Ian Parker, a discussion of how PowerPoint interferes with effective information presentation.  
      
    Where to go after Informatics 131 
       Informatics 132, Project in HCI Requirements and Evaluation  
        Informatics 133, User Interaction Software  
        Informatics 134, Project in User Interaction Software  
        Informatics 143, Information Visualization  
        Informatics 153, Computer-Supported Cooperative Work  
      
        
</body> 