 <body>  Inf 43: Introduction to Software Engineering    Fall Quarter, 2014 
Homework 1: Requirements Specification 
Draft due: Tuesday, October 21, 2014, 11:55pm    Final Document due: Tuesday, October 28, 2014, 11:55pm      For your course project you will specify the requirements for BeachBurn Manager (BBM). BeachBurn is an annual 5 day music festival held in XYZ club at Laguna Beach, California  To cater to the growing popularity of the festival, the ABC event management firm is looking to develop a software system that can help festival organizers with ticket management, schedule management and resource management before and during the festival.  The purpose of this assignment is to learn how to write a fairly complete and precise requirements specification, which is a critical step in developing a large software system. Completing this assignment will give you experience in one of the most interesting and difficult software engineering tasks.  This assignment is to write a software requirements document for the BBM system. The details of the requirements should be elicited by client interviews with your Teaching Assistant in meetings on October 14 and October 16 (subject to change). He will act as customer and user.  The deliverable is an electronic file in Word (.doc or .docx) format containing your requirements specification. Submit the draft via the EEE Dropbox "Homework1draft" " before Tuesday, October 21, 2014, 11:55pm. The draft will not be scored, but it must contain a reasonable first draft of the "Introduction" and "Overview/Executive Summary" sections. Your draft will not be commented on or returned. Submit the final document via the EEE Dropbox "Homework1final" before Tuesday, October 28, 2014, 11:55pm. The final document should be between 5 and 15 pages long. You will not turn in a printed version.  We provide a   template Word document   with which you should start. Your requirements specification should contain all of the sections contained in this template.   Scoring   The scoring criteria are outlined on the scoring sheet, which should be the first page of the document you turn in. Throughout the document we will be looking for:    Adherence to the stated structure.  Carefully follow the structure defined above. 
    Clarity of writing.  You should write your document in clear, precise, business-like English prose, avoiding jargon, humor, and wordiness. Correct spelling and correct grammar are essential. Avoid acronyms; common ones should be defined when first used. Bulleted and numbered lists can be used, with restraint, and not as a substitute for complete sentences and readable prose. 
    Fidelity to customer's desires.  It is important that your document be true to the requirements stated by the customer. Don't add or remove requirements without approval. When in doubt, ask the Teaching Assistant – but only for clarification purposes (no new requirements). 
    Completeness.  Your document should address all aspect of system functionality and constraints which are important to the user. 
    Consistency.  Your document will contain many detailed requirements. Careful thought is necessary to ensure that no subtle contradictions are introduced. 
    Verifiability.  State detailed requirements in a manner that facilitates determining whether they are met in the final implementation. 
    Avoiding implementation bias.  Focus on "what" not "how". 
    Modularity and separation of concerns.  Try to divide each section into subsections or paragraphs which are largely independent of each other. Ideally, each requirement or feature is discussed in its entirety in one place. Separate UI elements from the functionality to which they pertain. 
 </body> 