 paying for school @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  Paying for school  


     
 Paying for school 

 
 

 We recognize that UCI is a great place — we also know that school tuition can be rather expensive. 
 The UC Irvine Financial Aid and Scholarships office provides  an online financial aid estimator  with a personalized estimate of the cost of attendance and the estimated financial you may be eligible to receive. 
 The Financial Aid and Scholarships office also provides  an estimated breakdown of tuition and costs for attending UC Irvine . 
 To help you and your family, we offer a wide variety of financial aid options, including grants, loans, scholarships, paid research positions and student employment. 
 Please explore your options below: 
     Bren School Scholarships </strong>  The school offers more than $10,000 through competitive scholarships. The application period for these awards usually begins in the spring quarter and are made possible through the generous support of our community and industry friends.    
   Hispanic College Fund Scholars Program  </strong>  Provides a one-year partial tutiton scholarship of up to one-half a student's tutiton and fees, not to exceed $10,000 per academic year. Student must be a U.S. citizen. U. S. citizens from underrepresented groups (Women, African American, Hispanic American, Native American, and persons with disabilities) are encouraged to apply. Must be pursuing a degree in a physical science, technology, engineering or mathematics.  more »  
   ics.jobs </strong>  An employment job board provided by the Bren School to its students and alumni to assist them in their search for part-time, fulltime and internship positions within local technology companies.  more »  
   UCI Financial Aid Office </strong>  Provides students and their families with the financial resources necessary to assure access to their academic goals. Includes a database of nationwide scholarships and grants.  more »  
   SAGE Scholars Program </strong>  Through SAGE, companies offer paid multi-year internships to talented and highly motivated UCI students related to their field of study. Through these internships, business sponsors provide invaluable real-world business experience and training to students, as well as strong mentoring.  more »  
   UC LEADS </strong>  UC Irvine's UC LEADS (University of California Leadership Excellence through Advanced Degrees) program offers sophomore students an opportunity to begin their research training at the very beginning of their junior year. UC LEADS is designed to identify educationally or economically disadvantaged undergraduates pursuing courses of study in the sciences, engineering, and mathematics.  more »  
   SURF-IT </strong>   The Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship in Information Technology (SURF-IT) through Calit2 at UCI, provides a unique 10-week paid summer research opportunity for UCI undergraduates to become immersed in IT-related research and applications.  more »  
   SURF </strong>  The Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship Program (SURF) is a unique offering for undergraduate diversity students with outstanding academic potential. The program provides students who plan to pursue a Ph.D. degree and enter academic careers with the tools needed to facilitate the application, admission, and enrollment process for graduate school.  more »  
   IM-SURE </strong>  The Integrated Micro/Nano Summer Undergraduate Research Experience (IM-SURE) at UCI, provides a unique 10-week paid summer research opportunity for undergraduates to become fully immersed in cutting-edge micro/nano research and applications.  more »  
   SURP </strong>  The Summer Undergraduate Research Program (SURP) provides funding for UCI undergraduates from all disciplines who are conducting summer research projects or creative activities under the guidance of UCI faculty members. The program offers students the opportunity to become immersed in a research topic for a paid full-time ten-week period, or the equivalent of 400 hours.  more »  


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 