 Chimera 2.0 Tutorial: Preparing your system for Chimera<body>
 

 Preparing your System for Chimera 

   
To use Chimera, you must first have some items in place so
that you can run it on your system.  
Chimera 2.0
is written in Java and to run it, you need to have a Java Virtual Machine
which will be able to interpret Chimera's byte-code
on your system.  In addition to this, Chimera uses some packages developed 
by others.
 

 What you need to run Chimera 2.0 

 Currently Chimera 2.0 Beta uses the following:
 

  Java Virtual Machine (A Java byte-code interpretor which
	can interpret the byte-code generated by the
	Java Development Kit (JDK) used to develop Chimera 2.0)

	  Note: A Java Virtual Machine (JVM) which can interpret Java 
	byte-code is packaged with the JDK.  JDK 1.1.5 was used to 
	develop Chimera 2.0 so please use a Java interpretor (JVM)
	which can interpret the byte-code generated by JDK 1.1.5.
	The latest JDK (1.2 beta 3) includes the Java Foundation Class (JFC) 
	1.1 (this includes swing 1.0.1)
	and the JSDK which are packages that Chimera 2.0 uses.
	 
	   To obtain JDK 1.1.5 you may follow this link:
	  
	http://java.sun.com/products/jdk/1.1/ 
    	   To obtain JDK 1.2 beta 3 you may follow this link:
	  
	Java Developers Connection 
	 
	Note: You will need to register with the Java Developer Connection, but
	this is free.
	    

      swing 1.0.1 (swing is a ui component library which is part of 
	the Java Foundation Class 1.1)

      
	   To obtain swing 1.0.1 you may follow this link:
	  
	http://java.sun.com/products/jfc/swingdoc-static/what_is_swing.html 

    	   To obtain JFC 1.1, you may follow this link:
	  
	http://java.sun.com/products/jfc/swingdoc-current/intro.html 
	 
	Note: The latest JDK (version 1.2 beta 3) includes JFC 1.1.  You will
	not have to download JFC 1.1 if you are using the 
	JDK 1.2 beta 3.
	 
	    

      JSDK 1.0.1(the Java Servlet Development Kit which is used by
	 Rivendell 0.6)
	
	   To obtain the JSDK, you may follow this link:
	  
	http://jserv.javasoft.com:80/products/java-server/servlets/index.html 
	  to Sun for JSDK 1.0.1.
	 
	Note: The latest JDK (version 1.2 beta 3) includes the JSDK.  You will
	not have to download the JSDK 1.0.1 if you are using the 
	JDK 1.2 beta 3.
	 
	 
	    HTTPClient 3.0 (an HTTP client library used by Rivendell)

	   To obtain HTTPClient, you may follow this link:
	  
	http://www.innovation.ch/java/HTTPClient/ 
	 
	   

       Rivendell 0.6 (Rivendell is a java servlet which launches applications
	for Chimera 2.0)

	   You can obtain Rivendell from:
	 
	http://www.psl.cs.columbia.edu/Rivendell/ 
	    

       Microsoft XML parser in Java 1.8 (XML is used by create export files 
	of Chimera 2.0 databases)

	   You can obtain MSXML from:
	 
	http://www.microsoft.com/xml/  To find the page 
	where you can download the XML Parser, look under the 
	contents on the left column of the page and click the link called
	XML parser under XML family.  This takes you to the 
	Microsoft XML Parser in Java page.  Click the link Installation 
	to find the download link.  Click the link called download page,
	and proceeed to the section labeled Installation Instructions.  
	There you find the download links for Windows NT and for Unix.
	     Installing the packages 

  Assuming that you have a Java Virtual Machine installed on your
system and the other packages downloaded.  You will have to 
make adjustments to the Environment Variables on your system so that 
the packages can be found by your Java Virtual Machine (JVM). 
 

  Note: There should be documentation from the download sites which should
guide you on installing the packages on your system.  At least one of
the packages above uses gnu's gzip compression program.
 

  Environment Variables 

  Environment variables are used pass information to applications.  The
Java interpretor (JVM) needs to have some particular environment variables 
set so that it can find the packages you have downloaded.  Generally
the environment variable CLASSPATH needs to be set so that 
it includes the path to the Java byte-code for the packages listed
earlier.  CLASSPATH is the environment variable used by the Java interpretor
for Java byte-code.  Please follow
the instructions below for specific examples of installing the various packages.
 

  Setting the Environment Variable on Solaris 

  For setting swing 1.0.1 follow the link:

	   
        Setting swing 1.0.1 into the CLASSPATH in Solaris
           
	  

     For setting JSDK 1.0.1 follow the link:

	    
    	Setting JSDK in the CLASSPATH for Solaris 
	   

     For HTTPClient 0.3 follow this link:

	    
    	Setting up HTTPClient on Solaris 
	   

     For Rivendell 0.6 follow this link:

	    
    	Setting up Rivendell on Solaris 
	   

     For MSXML Parser 1.8 follow the link:

	    
        Setting up msxml on Solaris  
	  
  Setting Environment Variables on Windows NT 

   Setting Environment
	Variables in Windows NT
           
 </body> 