 
	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                             
        	
		
		    
  
            
 
 
 
	 Calico 
	 ...an intuitive sketch-based design environment for use on touch-based devices... 
	  
	   
 
	 PorchLight 
	 ...a desktop bug tracker interface designed to support effective bug triaging... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Development 
	 ...a cloud IDE for building software with a crowd... 
	  
	   
 
	 CodeExchange 
	 ...supporting iterative internet-scale code search... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Debugging 
	 How hundreds of workers can help locate faults in software?  
	  
	   
 
	 CrowdDesign 
	 ...crowd sourced software designs [...] 
	  
	   
 

             
            
             
                  Welcome 			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design. 
		              
         
                
         
			 
            	 	
			 
     
         Jun 14  13  
          Grant on Crowd Programming                     
     

				
     
         We’re very happy to announce that the National Science Foundation has awarded SDCL a $1.4M grant to investigate the application of microtask crowdsourcing to programming. 
 More details in the  official NSF announcement . 
        
           Posted in    News   by  tlatoza .
          Comments Off  on Grant on Crowd Programming   
         
     
  												  
     
         Jun 14  13  
          ICSE 2014                     
     

				
     
             
 Two members of SDCL – André and Thomas – attended ICSE 2014 in Hyderabad, India. André served as a Program Chair of ICSE, helping to select the program of ICSE. Thomas served as an organizer of a new workshop on  Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSI-SE) . Both ICSE and CSI-SE went very well, and we had many great conversations with our colleagues. 
 Bonus: in the tradition of  Where’s Waldo , where’s André? (hint: André is Dutch). 
        
           Posted in    conference   Travel   by  tlatoza .
          Comments Off  on ICSE 2014   
         
     
  												  
     
         Jun 14  13  
          Welcome Danilo and William                     
     

				
     
         We have two new members in SDCL for the summer: 
 Danilo is B.Sc. Student majoring in Computer Engineering at the Federal University of Sao Carlos, Brazil. He is a former exchange student at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign during Fall 2013 and Spring 2014. He will work with Christian on how to apply crowd sourcing methods to detect bugs on Java source codes. 
 William is an award winning ( honorable mention in  IEEE gamesig) Game Designer majoring in Computer Game Science at UC Irvine. He is currently pursuing an interest in developing software and games for emerging technologies, such as the Google Glass, the Oculus Rift, and the Verve. He will work with Lee and Mengyao on the Google Glass project. 
 Welcome Danilo and William! 
        
           Posted in    News   by  Mengyao .
          Comments Off  on Welcome Danilo and William   
         
     
  												  
     
         May 14  18  
          Meet the SDCL Beowulf Cluster                     
     

				
     
         We needed to do some serious data mining on a budget, so we built a 45 Raspberry Pi Beowulf cluster.  It’s working great and is a welcomed member of the lab :).     
        
           Posted in    News   by  lmartie .
          Comments Off  on Meet the SDCL Beowulf Cluster   
         
     
  												  
     
         May 14  16  
          SCALE meeting at UC Irvine                     
     

				
     
         UC Irvine hosted a meeting of the SCALE research group. SDCL had posters on several research projects. Lots of great discussion! 
     
        
           Posted in    News   by  tlatoza .
          Comments Off  on SCALE meeting at UC Irvine   
         
     
  												  
     
         Apr 14  29  
          CHI2014                     
     

				
     
         Nick Mangano and Mengyao Zhao went to CHI this year in Toronto. Nick gave a talk on Calico called “Supporting Informal Design with Interactive Whiteboards”. Mengyao presented a paper called “A Doodled Us: A Design Case Study On Urban Collaborative Art With Arduino” at the Socially Engaged Art Practice in HCI workshop. 
     
     
        
           Posted in    Travel   by  Mengyao .
          Comments Off  on CHI2014   
         
     
  												  
     
         Apr 14  29  
          Won 2nd Place in 2014 Annual Autism Appjam                     
     

				
     
         Mengyao’s team (group with Kate Ringland, Oliver Haimson, Nathan Major and Kalyda Tokhi), DanceCraft, won 2nd place and the Social Media Award in the 2014 annual autism appjam. Check more information about the project here:  http://dancecraftforautism.wordpress.com/  
     
        
           Posted in    News   by  Mengyao .
          Comments Off  on Won 2nd Place in 2014 Annual Autism Appjam   
         
     
  												  
     
         Apr 14  17  
          Visit to MobileWorks                     
     

				
     
         Thomas gave on a talk on microtask programming at MobileWorks with plenty of great discussion and feedback! 
 Before the talk:   
        
           Posted in    Travel   by  tlatoza .
          Comments Off  on Visit to MobileWorks   
         
     
  												  
     
         Apr 14  8  
          Visitors from The Netherlands                     
     

				
     
            Luxi and Micky are master students from the University of Amsterdam. They will spend four months with us researching how to crowdsource software design activities. Welcome! 
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Visitors from The Netherlands   
         
     
  												  
     
         Apr 14  1  
          Tablet tower to server tower                     
     

				
     
         What do you do when you need to do a lot of parallel data processing but cloud services are just too expensive?  Turn your lab’s tablets into servers, of course! 
     
        
           Posted in    News   by  lmartie .
          Comments Off  on Tablet tower to server tower   
         
     
  												 	    
         
          « Previous Page  
          Next Page »  
          
     
    
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			      
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 