 account allocation and backups @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  policies  


     
 Undergraduate Student Policies 

 
 

  Account Allocation
  
  GENERAL ACCOUNT INFORMATION</strong>  
 Most computing in the Bren School is done on either UNIX based Sun workstations or on Windows based PCs. These machines have various uses -- research, departmental administration, undergraduate instruction, graduate instruction -- but all are networked together and share a common file space.  
 In particular, no matter which departmental computer you use, either Windows or Sun, you will use the same account with the same home directory.  
  All Bren School majors receive both UNIX and Windows accounts. Non-major students receive accounts only if the  Bren School course they are enrolled in requires an account on a particular platform.  
 There are directions for activating instructional accounts on-line at   Activating Instructional Accounts  and in the CS 364 lab.  
  Bren School majors and other students enrolled in certain Bren School courses have access to a variety of computers in several labs.  
 These machines allow you to: read and send e-mail, read announcements for your classes through newsgroups, and complete classwork programming assignments.  
 Unless you are involved in research, these computers in the instructional labs are the only machines you will be able to use.  
 If you do become involved in research with a faculty member she may decide to give you access to her machines.  
 You can check out the  Lab Hour  and  Lab Equipment  for more information. 
    Expiration</strong> - Expiration dates for accounts are taken from enrollment data provided by the Registrar. When an account is about to expire, an automated email notice is sent.   
                  In the normal course of events, if you are a Bren School major your account will be automatically extended and you will never see such messages.   
                  Non-Bren School majors will receive these messages as their accounts are opened and closed each quarter depending on course enrollment. If you continue to enroll in a Bren School course, your account will reactivate automatically.  
                  If the Registrar does not list you, or you fail to enroll on time, you will be sent one of these notices. If you receive a notice in error, contact   helpdesk@ics.uci.edu . 
    Quotas</strong> - Your quota is the amount of disk space you are allowed to use. Undergraduate students get a quota of 100 MB. For information on how to check your quota, please see  Account Quota . 
    Please Note</strong> - When contacting support, please include your Bren School login and student ID number to facilitate the processing of your request. If you change your name or student ID number, you need to notify   helpdesk@ics.uci.edu . Otherwise, your account may be automatically locked or your quota removed because of the way the registrar's system works.  
  For general information about what support offers undergraduate students see   Student Information .  
   
  Backups  
 Any data on the Bren School network filer TRON have the snapshot
ability available for  self restore . Snapshots retain data for 30 days. 
 To request something be restored from backups, please  contact computing support . 


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 