 ICS 139W Syllabus—Summer 2007<body>
  
 
 S UMMER  Q UARTER  2007 —
  Information and Computer Science  —   UC Irvine    
 
 ICS 139W Course Reference    C OMMUNICATIONS  S KILLS
FOR  C OMPUTER  S CIENTISTS       
 
  Instructor:     David G. Kay  ,
5056 Donald Bren Hall (   kay@uci.edu   )  
 
  Teaching assistant:  Denh Sy (   dsy@uci.edu   ).
 Denh will devote some of the scheduled lab section time to individual
consultations; he will also be available at other scheduled times to be
arranged, and by appointment.  
   Quick links:   Email archive    
 
  Course goals:   Even if you intend to
spend your entire professional life designing software or configuring networks,
you will spend more of it writing prose—memos, proposals, documentation,
electronic mail—than you will writing code.  Yet in most of your courses,
you exercise this vital skill only after you have run the last test case,
in the half-hour before the deadline.  Here we have the luxury of concentrating
on your writing skills, with an emphasis on writing to meet the specific
needs of different audiences; you will also make oral presentations and
design presentation graphics.    
 
 This course satisfies UCI's upper division
writing requirement, which gives students the opportunity to do writing
in ways that are specific to their own academic disciplines, guided by faculty
from that discipline rather than from English.  
 
  Prerequisite concepts:   Satisfaction
of the lower division writing requirement is a prerequisite for this course,
so we will expect every student to be able to write cogent, grammatical
English at the level expected in Writing 39C.  
 
  Meeting place and times:   Lecture meets
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 1:00 to 2:50 in Donald Bren Hall 1200.  The discussion
section is scheduled on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 1:00 to 1:50 in CS 180; some section
days will involve required activities, but others will be set aside for
individual consultations on your work.   
 
  Office hours:   I will be in or near
my office during these scheduled hours, during which course-related matters
will have first priority:  Mondays from 10:00 to 10:30 and Wednesdays from 12:30 to 12:55. 
Of course emergencies may come up, but I will try to give advance notice
of any change.  If I'm not immersed in something else, I'll be glad
to answer short questions whenever I'm in my office, so feel free to
drop by any time.  I'll also be happy to make appointments for other
times during the week.  The quickest and most effective way to reach me
is by electronic mail, as described below.  
 
  Questions and announcements:   You can
usually get a response to your course-related questions within a few hours
(though a bit less frequently on the weekends) by sending electronic mail
to the ID    ics139w@uci.edu   .
 This goes to both of us, and whoever reads it first can respond.  If you
need to reach one of us individually, our individual addresses are listed
above.  
 
 We may also send course announcements by Email
to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email at least daily.
 Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
has for you (your UCInet ID).  If you prefer to read your Email on another
account, you should set your UCInet account to forward your Email to your
preferred account (from    http://www.nacs.uci.edu/email/forward.html   ).  Don't let this slide; if you miss official
announcements, your grade could suffer.     
 
 This course has a home page at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/139w   ;    http://e3.uci.edu/07y/w3m3/35565 
  holds an archive of official course
Email. If there's interest in setting up a Note Board for semi-public communication among students, let us know.   
 
  Course materials:   
    The MIT Guide to
    Science and Engineering Communication,  second edition, by James Paradis
    and Muriel Zimmerman.  This brief guide describes the various forms of scientific
    and technical writing, including sections on oral presentations and document
    design.
    
     Visual &amp; Statistical Thinking: Displays of Evidence for Decision
    Making,  by Edward R. Tufte.  This reprint of Chapter 2 of Tufte's
    book,  Visual Explanations,  describes two situations where the way
    information was presented had life-or-death consequences.  
     The Cognitive Style of PowerPoint,  second edition, by Edward R. Tufte. Tufte presents evidence that "PowerPoint, comparied to other common presentation tools, reduces the analytical quality of serious presentations of evidence."  
   
     An English dictionary.  Ideally you should
      have a paperback dictionary as well as a large, unabridged dictionary in
      the place where you'll do most of your writing.  The former has faster
      access time but the latter has greater capacity, so both are valuable. 
      A paperback thesaurus is also useful, though you should remember that a
      thesaurus doesn't give the connotations or appropriate contexts for
    the synonyms it lists.  
   
      Writing from A to Z  (currently in the
      fifth edition) by Ebest, Alred, Brusaw, and Oliu.  This is the writing reference
      for lower division writing at UCI.  Everyone needs a general writing reference,
      and you should get this one if you don't have it or an equivalent. 
    Earlier editions are fine.  
  
  Course requirements and grading:   To
satisfy the upper division writing requirement, you must receive a grade
of C or better in this course; you may also take this class on a pass/not-pass
basis (which also requires work at the C level to pass).  In addition to
satisfactory participation and completion of the assignments, to pass 139W
you must successfully complete an in-class writing sample (described in
more detail in the following section) demonstrating your ability to write
a short passage in clear, correct, grammatical, cogent academic English.  
  
     Four main writing assignments, each with
      multiple parts:  "Writing Instructions" (about 10% of the course
      grade), "Influencing Policy" (about 20%), "Changing the System
      Introductory Tutorial" (about 15%), "Changing the System Proposal"
    (about 25%).  
   
     Two or three smaller exercises, each worth
    about 5%.  
   
     Class attendance and participation, including
      three or four oral presentations, worth about 20% overall.  The importance
      of participation in this course is clear from its weight.  Much of the learning
      comes from activities we conduct in class; there is no other way to make
      them up, and your grade will suffer if you miss them.  The course outline
      indicates certain activities with a bullet (•); it is particularly important
    that you attend class or lab on those dates.  
  
 In general we will assign scores on a 100-point
scale, with 95 a clear A, 85 a clear B, and below 70 not of passing quality
(i.e., below C).  It is possible but not guaranteed that the cutoffs for
course letter grades of A and B will be assigned more leniently; that is,
an overall score of 89% might receive an A or A-.  
 
 There will be no exams.  
  We're required to say that in unusual circumstances, these criteria could change, but we do not expect that to happen.  
   Special needs:  Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation due to a disability should contact the UCI Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to explore the possible range of accommodations. We encourage all students having difficulty, whether or not due to a disability, to consult privately with the instructor at any time.   
 
  In-class writing sample:   The first
in-class writing sample is scheduled for Wednesday, June 27; if you don't
pass the first sample, you will have another chance on Friday, June 29.
 The topic for each sample will be something designed to be easy to write
about, so you can concentrate on your writing rather than the underlying
ideas.  In hour-plus class period, we will ask you to write roughly
300 words (for comparison, this page contains nearly 600 words); this should
give you plenty of time to revise and rewrite your passage.  To pass, your
writing must have essentially perfect mechanics, grammar, and usage, and
it must be reasonably clear and well organized.  You may bring a dictionary
or any other reference works.  Being able to produce clear and correct writing
is a requirement for completing lower division writing, so we expect everyone
in the class to be able to demonstrate this ability.  
 
  Computer access:   Students in ICS 139W
have access to the ICS open labs.  These machines run Windows and the Microsoft
Office suite of  software, including Word and PowerPoint.  For this course
you may use any system to which you legitimately have access; we will require
that you learn and use PowerPoint (or Apple's Keynote or an open-source equivalent) for part of one assignment.  
 
  Assignment requirements:   The separate
sheet titled " Writing Assignment Requirements "
contains important advice that can affect your grade.  Read it now and check
it again every time you start a new assignment.  There are also mechanical
details for submitting assignments; each major assignment is submitted in
two ways:  on paper (including all the previously submitted, marked versions)
and electronically via   checkmate.ics.uci.edu  ).
 Especially in a condensed summer session, it's important that every
assignment be precisely where it's supposed to be at the time it's
supposed to be there.  
 
  What you must do right now to get started
in ICS 139W:
  — If you do not have a UCInet ID (an account on the EA system for Email),
get one.  See    http://www.oac.uci.edu/computing/activate.html   .
 
— If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
UCInet account, redirect your mail at    http://www.nacs.uci.edu/email/forward.html  .    — Give a snapshot of yourself (with
your name written on the back) to your TA.  This will help us learn your
names quickly.  (This is not just for fun—it's a course requirement.)
 Also log on to 
eee.uci.edu, choose Surveys, and complete the ICS 139W Questionnaire (by 5:00 on Wednesday, June 27) 
— On the Web, go to   checkmate.ics.uci.edu  ,
log in with your UCInet ID, choose "Course Listing" for "Summer
1 2007," click "Go" next to ICS 139W, and then click "List
me for this course."  You'll submit some of your work electronically;
this step is necessary to set that up.
 
— If you aren't yet officially enrolled in the course, check the course
Email archive regularly (see above) so you can keep up with official announcements
(which may include announcements about enrollment).  
 
  Good advice and helpful hints:   
 
 Check your electronic mail regularly; this
is an official channel for course announcements.  
 
 Attendance in class is important (and essential
on the days marked with a bullet (•) in the outline below).  Class participation
of various kinds is rewarded at 20% of the course grade.  
 
 Always keep your own copy of each assignment,
both electronically and on paper; if an assignment should get lost in the
shuffle (or if a file server in the lab should crash, which has happened
in the past), we'll expect you to be able to supply a replacement easily.  
 
 If you find yourself having trouble or getting
behind, speak with a TA or the instructor.  But  never  take the shortcut
of copying someone else's work and turning it in; the consequences can
be far worse than just a low score on one assignment.  The ICS department
takes academic honesty very seriously; for a more complete discussion, see
the ICS academic honesty policy:  
 http://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/policies/index.php#03   .  
 
 The best advice we can give you is to read
all the materials with care and pay close attention to what they specify.
 Even if a natural language like English is not quite as precise as a formal
language like Java, precise expression in English is precisely what this
course is about and we have tried to reflect that in our course materials.
 The time it takes to read each assignment twice will be time well spent.  
  
  Approximate course outline:   
        
   Week     
 
  Date    
 
  Topic    
 
  Item(s) Due  [see notes below]  
   
  1.    
 
 25 June   
 
 Introduction to the course
    
 
    
   
    
 
 26 June (section)   
 
 Consultation on " Changing System "
topics and " Writing Instructions "   
   
   
    
 
 27 June   
 
     Oral presentation techniques    • In-class writing sample I       
  " Changing System "
Email to Denh Sy  
(   dsy@uci.edu   )  
   
    
 
 28 June (section)   
 
 Consultation hour   
 
        
     
    29 June  
    • Using other people's writing   
• In-class writing sample II (if necessary)  
    " Writing Instructions "
(draft, 3 copies)*   
   
  2.    
 
 2 July   
 
 • Oral synopsis of system changes 
 
•  Group editing of letter influencing policy    
 
 "Changing System" synopsis (oral)
 " Influencing Policy "
(draft)*
 "Writing Instructions" (final)  
   
    
 
 3 July (section)   
  Consultation hour   
   
   
    
 
 4 July   
  — Holiday —    
   
   
    
 
 5 July (section)   
  •  Group editing of introductory tutorials    
 
    "Changing System" intro (draft)*  
     
    6 July  
    Effective typography and presentation graphics
[ guidelines ;  specimen ]  
    "Influencing Policy" (revised)  
   
  3.    
 
 9 July   
 
 • Oral tutorial introduction to system (videotaped)   
 
 "Changing System" intro (final)
 "Changing System" intro (oral)  
   
    
 
 10 July (section)   
 
 •  Group editing of change proposals    
 
 "Changing System" proposal (draft
with slides)*  
   
    
 
 11 July   
 
 Information visualization 
    
 
 "Changing System" proposal (revised
with slides)  
   
    
 
 12 July  (section)   
 
 • Review of videotapes      
 
      
     
    13 July  
    Résumés and cover letters  
     
   
  4.    
 
 16 July   
 
 Nature and structure of language   
 
 "Influencing Policy" (final)  
   
    
 
 17 July (section)   
  Consultation hour    
 
   Graphics Activity (optional)    
   
    
 
 18 July   
  Nature and structure of language (continued)    
   
   
    
 
 19 July (section)   
  • Testing of PowerPoint files   
 
      
     
    20 July   
    •  Oral proposal of change  to decision-makers  
    "Changing System" proposal (oral)  
   
  5.    
 
 23 July   
  • Oral proposals (continued)   
   
   
    
 
 24 July (section)   
  Consultation hour    
   
   
    
 
 25 July   
  • Oral proposals (continued)   
  "Changing System" proposal (final)  
   
    
 
  26 July (section)   
 
       Consultation hour    
   
       
    27 July  
    •    Group editing of promotion pieces   or  résumés and cover letters      
    "Changing System" promo or résumé/cover
letter (draft)*  
    6.  
    30 July   
    • Oral promotion of change to users  
    Epilogue  
    "Changing System"   promo or résumé/cover
(final)      
"Changing System" promo (oral)  
       
    31 July (section)   
    (Reserved)  
       
       
    1 August   
    (Reserved)  
       
    All assignments listed above must be submitted
in two ways (on paper at the start of class and via Checkmate), as described
on the previous page, with these exceptions: 
  
     Of course the Email message listed above
    should not be submitted any other way.  
   
     The assignments marked "oral"
    do not entail any other submission (though most of them have related parts
    that  do  have to be submitted in multiple ways; those parts are all
    listed separately).  
   
     The assignments marked with an asterisk
      (*) should be submitted in class on paper only; they do not have to be submitted
    electronically.  
   
  David G. Kay ,   kay@uci.edu 
 
</body> 