 Euler's Formula<body>
     
  Euler's Formula,
Proof 17: Valuations
 

 This proof comes from
 Klain and Rota ,
who develop it as part of a more general theory of
invariant measures on Euclidean spaces.
Thanks also to Robin Chapman for helping explain it to me.

  Let U d  be the vector space of functions from  R  d 
to  R , and V d  be the subspace of U d 
generated by characteristic functions of compact convex sets
in  R  d .
We define a function χ d  that maps V d  to real numbers,
as follows:
   If d=1, for any function f in V d , let
   
D f(x) = f(x) - lim y-&gt;x +  f(y),
  
χ 1 (f) = sum D f(x)
 
  
(Note that this sum always has only a finite number of nonzero terms.)
    If d&gt;1, partition the coordinates of  R  d  into sets
of d-1 and 1 coordinate:
   
 R  d  =  R  d-1  ×  R .
 
 Thus we can represent any point in  R  d  as a pair
(x,z) where x in  R  d-1  and z in  R .
For any function f in V d ,
and any z in  R , let f z  denote the restriction of f to
a (d-1)-dimensional cross-section:
f z (x) = f(x,z),
so f z  is a function in V d-1 .
We then define
   
χ d (f) = sum D χ d-1 (f z ).
 
  
Because D and Sum are linear operators, χ is a linear function from V
to  R .  It can also be shown by a simple induction on dimension
that, if f is the characteristic function of a compact convex set K,
then χ(f) = 1: By induction, χ(f z ) is the
characteristic function of a closed interval, from which it is clear
from the definition that sum D χ(f z ) is 1.
Thus also (since V has the characteristic
functions of convex compact sets as its basis) χ is well defined
independently of the choice of coordinates for  R  d .

 If
g is the characteristic function of the relative interior of a polytope
K, it is in V d  (by inclusion-exclusion of lower-dimensional
faces) and a similar induction shows that
χ(g) = (-1) m , where m is the dimension of K:
Because of the independence of χ from the coordinate system, we can assume m=d.  Each cross-section of K is itself a polytope, so by induction
χ(g z ) is (-1) m-1  times the characteristic function of an open interval, and the effect of the sum and D operators is to multiply by another factor of -1.

  Now we let K be a convex polytope, and evaluate χ on its characteristic function in two different ways, by partitioning K into the disjoint union of the relative interiors of its faces.  By linearity of χ, the sum of its values on these relative interiors must be the same as its value on all of K, that is,
    
1 = sum (-1)^m
 
 
where the sum is over the set of faces of K (including K itself).
Grouping the faces by their dimensions, we get a form of Euler's formula:
   
1 = sum (-1) i  f i  
 
where the sum runs from i=1 to the dimension of K.
    
 Proofs of Euler's Formula . 
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file.
Last update: .  </body> 