 Is Free really the future of gaming?<body>

     TechRadar.com    http://www.techradar.com/news/gaming/is-free-really-the-future-of-gaming--582868?artc_pg=2 

 
 
 Is free really the future of gaming? 

By Alec Meer
 It's not just new developers going
gratis, Sony and EA are too 

11 March 2009  

   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sony's
Free Realms – shopping for the girls, car racing for the boys 

   

 Would
you pay 99p for a new hat in EA's Battlefield Heroes? 

  Quake Live is essentially Quake III in a new wrapper, but the
Quakelive.com portal is planned to be as important for community and
revenue as the game itself. 

 ------------------------------------------- 

 There's no such thing
as a free lunch. But how about a lunch during which you have to watch a
couple of adverts, or pay 50p for extra ketchup? What if it's a plain
meal you eat in the company of paying customers devouring lavish haute
cuisine? 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 There are many possible futures for gaming, and the
magic word 'free' orbits around a great many of them. It's the
internet's fault, of course – this is a world that's become
highly
accustomed to getting what it wants whenever it wants, and without a
pricetag.  

 On the PC especially, there are dual wars being
fought against rampant piracy and punter-bewildering system specs. The
answer, or at least an answer that's being toyed with of late, is free
games – high on accessibility, low on technical requirements,
and
funded by a cocktail of advertising and micropayments for extra
content.  

  Can free games pay?</strong> 

 It's a fallacy to think this is a new model. Kid/casual
gamer-orientated free MMOs such as  Puzzle Pirates ,
 Neo Pets  and  Maple Story 
have amassed vast userbases and not insubstantial profits over the last
couple of years. What's new is that the old guard of the gaming
industry is sitting up and taking notice.  

 This year, we'll see the likes of EA with  Battlefield
Heroes , Sony with  Free Realms  and id
Software with  Quake Live 
all flex some free gaming muscle. Meantime, a new generation of
independent developers are making a name for themselves with bold,
inventive free titles – and the smaller teams (often just one
or two
people) means the potential to earn good cash is that much higher.  

 "I make most of my money from sponsors," says independent
developer  Edmund McMillen ,
co-creator of the award-winning  Gish  and
currently working on  Super Meat Boy 
for Wii and PC. These commercial outings are a rarity for him, however
– mostly he designs experimental (and often controversial)
free games.  

 That's
not to say he doesn't make some money from them. "I could potentially
make what some would call a living off of free games, but I'd still be
stuck in this poverty line hole where I can't afford health insurance
and a new car if my truck dies on me. I'm not the most business savvy
person, but I usually find a sponsor I respect that's willing to drop a
few K to basically put an ad for their site in the intro of the game as
well as the title screen.  

 "Aside from the sponsorship, ad's do
pay a little here and there, and there is always the prize money you
get from NewGrounds and Kongregate [big free gaming portals]. I'm at a
point where I feel like I have enough experience when it comes to game
design to 'play with the big boys' when it comes to making downloadable
console games." 

 Then there's Flashbang Studios, who've been delighting gamers
recently with high-concept, high-polish games like  Velociraptor
Safari  and  Minotaur China Shop  ( must-plays  for anyone
with a sense of humour and a love of gaming).  

 Their
reasoning for free gaming is a little different, as their designer
Steve Swink explains: "Flashbang as a company has three faces:
technology contractor, casual game affiliate and game developer.
Arguably, game developer is the main face and is definitely the
emotional glue holding the company together.  

 "We're all here
because we love making games first and foremost. Unfortunately, that
face has never been substantially lucrative. It is because of our
contract work and our involvement in affiliate programs that we have
financial stability. We can continue to survive making free games as we
have been, provided we keep our other revenue streams open." 

 "As
it turns out, keeping these revenue streams open crushes our fragile
creative souls, so there are definitely plans in motion to monetize our
games and position ourselves to focus solely on them. The plan is to
set up a subscription service where players can pay a small amount to
get extra features on our portal and within our games.  

 "The games themselves will remain free to play for the wild
webs, but subscribers will get access to the maximum awesome." 

 
 It's that model that's behind  Battlefield Heroes ,
EA's rethink of its best-selling team shooter series as a
browser-based, casual gamer friendly cartoonish war. It'll be free to
create an account and play whenever you want, but that way your
character will look pretty bland and have only basic abilities. To
change that, you pay. "Maybe you want the gold helmet and a huge
moustache, or something like that", suggests DICE's developer Ben
Cousins.  

 Alternatively, you can improve your character: "Let's imagine
that the two of us are playing the  game ,
and you're playing the game every night for four hours, you're
levelling up your guy really fast, but I only play the game a couple of
evenings a week. So maybe I'll buy an item which gives me double the
experience points for a couple of days." 

 The trick is finding a
balance between something that makes the folk who pay for it feel
sufficiently special and also ensuring the folk who don't want to pay
don't feel like they're on a back foot. They may not be paying, but
there absolutely has to be a big, happy, word-spreading community in
order to attract new players who  might  pay.  

 Sony's attempting a similar thing with upcoming MMO  Free Realms ,
currently in closed beta. It's a colourful fantasy world aimed at
children and casual gamers – while it might have the
levelling and
stat-boosting of something like  World of Warcraft ,
it largely constitutes a series of mini-games, such as fighting, racing
and match-3 puzzles.  

 It's
a massive playground full of distractions, essentially, and its high
polish, high customisation appearance could pull in a huge crowd. To
fund itself, it's trying every trick in the book – adverts on
loading
screens, free bonus items sponsored by brands such as Best Buy, a paid
subscription to unlock extra content, a real-world collectable card
game and comic and, of course, micropayment items, notably character
customisation stuff like haircuts, clothing and pets.  

  Is add-on content the only way forward?</strong> 

 Sony
promise the free game will be high-quality and full-featured, but the
sheer number of ways it'll be prompting people (kids, specifically) to
spend money brings up a fundamental concern about free  gaming  in
general.  

 Do
free games have to noticeably badger its players to buy extra content
in order to survive and, if so, at what point do they become annoyed or
uncomfortable about it? On the other side of the coin is  Quake
Live , id Software's free, browser-based relaunch of its
classic multiplayer shooter  Quake III .  

 For
now, it has in-game billboards and that's it. That's the sort of thing
you see in paid games, so it's hard to balk at them. There are more
plans in the offing, reportedly – paid-for character models
and your
favourite level maps from days gone by are the most likely bets. The
question there is at what point a player thinks, "well, I can buy  Quake
III  for a fiver and then download the other bits for free". 

 This
is a very young form of gaming, and no doubt we're in for several years
of trial and error before the perfect balance is found. Until then,
traditional paid games aren't going anywhere - there's still something
to be said for knowing your £30 buys you a complete
experience. Then
again, we're increasingly seeing 360 and PS3 games offering additional,
and often very desirable, content for a few quid - so getting the
initial game for free, even if it's a barebones experience, starts
looking appealing again after all.  

 One additional hurdle for
free gaming is the name, and the negative connotations thereof. "Our
hope - and the basket we're putting our eggs in - is that 'free' will
soon be disassociated with 'shallow' and 'cruddy'," says Flashbang's
Steve Swink." For Edmund McMillen, 'free' is very much a positive
concept:  

 "True creative freedom is the biggest appeal about
doing freeware games. When you step into console dev, no matter how
much you want to think you're totally indie, you're not. You're still
at the whim of your publisher, they have the final say and if they
don't like something you're going to have to change it to get it
published."  

 So even if publishers turn free gaming into a
distasteful minefield of paid bonus content and advertising barrages,
there'll still be developers embracing the absolute freedom it offers.
Free gaming, one way or another, is here to stay. 

  

  

 

 

</body> 