 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
Publications with
 
Nina Amenta
 
 
   Application Challenges to Computational Geometry . 
The
 
Computational Geometry Impact Task Force
 
Report.  Tech.
Rep. TR-521-96 , Princeton University, April 1996. 
Advances in Discrete and Computational Geometry -- Proc. 1996 AMS-IMS-SIAM
Joint Summer Research Conf. Discrete and Computational Geometry: Ten
Years Later, Contemporary Mathematics 223, Amer. Math. Soc., 1999, pp. 407–423.
 ( Citations )
  
    Optimal point placement for mesh smoothing .  N. Amenta ,
 M. Bern ,
and D. Eppstein.  
 8th ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete
Algorithms,  New Orleans, 1997, pp. 528–537 .  Symp.
Computational Geometry Approaches to Mesh Generation ,
SIAM 45th Anniversary Mtg., Stanford, 1997.  arXiv:cs.CG/9809081 .  
 J. Algorithms  30: 302–322, 1999 (special issue for SODA 1997) .
 
We study  finite element mesh  smoothing
problems in which we
move vertex locations to optimize the shapes of nearby
triangles.  Many such problems can be solved in linear time using
 generalized linear programming ; we also give
efficient
algorithms for some non-LP-type mesh smoothing problems.
One lemma may be of independent interest: the locus of points in R d 
from which a d-1 dimensional convex set subtends a given solid angle
is convex.
  ( BibTeX  --
 SODA paper  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    The crust and the beta-skeleton: combinatorial curve
reconstruction .  N. Amenta ,
 M. Bern ,
and D. Eppstein.   Graphical Models &amp; Image Processing  60/2 (2): 125–135, 1998 .
 
We consider the problem of "connect the dots": if we have an unknown
smooth curve from which sample points have been selected, we would like
to find a curve through the sample points that approximates the unknown
curve.  We show that if the local sample density is sufficiently high, a
simple algorithm suffices: form the Delaunay
triangulation of the sample points together with their Voronoi vertices,
and keep only those Delaunay edges connecting original sample points.
There have been many follow-up papers suggesting alternative methods,
generalizing the problem to the reconstruction of curves with sharp
corners or to curves and surfaces in higher dimensions, etc.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    
 
    Regression depth and center points .  N. Amenta ,
 M. Bern ,
D. Eppstein, and
 S.-H. Teng .  arXiv:cs.CG/9809037 .   3rd CGC
Worksh. Computational Geometry  , Brown Univ., 1998.   Disc. Comp. Geom.  23 (3): 305–323, 2000 .
 
We show that, for any set of n points in d dimensions, there exists a
hyperplane with
 regression depth  at least ceiling(n/(d+1)). as had
been conjectured by Rousseeuw and Hubert. Dually, for any
arrangement of n hyperplanes in d dimensions there exists a point
that cannot escape to infinity without crossing at least
ceiling(n/(d+1)) hyperplanes. We also apply our approach to
related questions on the existence of partitions of the data into
subsets such that a common plane has nonzero regression depth in
each subset, and to the computational complexity of regression
depth problems.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Emerging challenges in computational topology .  M. Bern ,
D. Eppstein, et al.  arXiv:cs.CG/9909001 .  
This is the report from the ACM Workshop on Computational Topology
run by Marshall and myself in Miami Beach, June 1999.
It details goals, current research, and recommendations
in this emerging area of collaboration between computer science and
mathematics.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
     
 Co-authors  --
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 