 <body> 
			$theTitle=wp_title(" - ", false);
			if($theTitle != "") {
			?&gt;
			 Eric M. Dashofy -
			
			}
			else{
			?&gt;
			Eric M. Dashofy
			}
			?&gt;
		 
	 
		   
		
		 
			   Home  
  Blog  
  Publications  
  Research  
  Contact  
			  
	 

	 
		     
			
		 
				 Pages 		   Home  
  Blog  
  Publications  
  Research  
  Contact  
		  Blog Entries 		   May 2009  
		  Friends 			    Institute for Space Development Research    
		 Meta 			   Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  			  
			 

 Home 

  Welcome!  My name is Eric Dashofy.  I am a computer scientist with a background in  software architecture  and software engineering. I currently work as Principal Director of (Information Technology) Development in the Enterprise Information Services division of  The Aerospace Corporation , a federally funded research and development center (FFRDC) in El Segundo, CA.  I have a Ph.D. in Computer Science from  The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine , where I worked under  Professor Richard N. Taylor . 
 Software Architecture: Foundations, Theory, and Practice 
    I’m one of the authors of   Software Architecture: Foundations, Theory, and Practice  , along with Professors  Richard N. Taylor  (UCI) and  Nenad Medvidovic  (USC).  It is perhaps the first full-length textbook on software architecture, with a broad and comprehensive treatment of not just architecture itself, but the discipline of software engineering seen with an architecture-centric perspective.  My co-authors and I welcome questions or comments on the book, so feel free to contact me directly if you have any! 
 You can get the book from our publisher, or one of many online retailers: 
   Software Architecture: Foundations, Theory, and Practice  at Wiley.com, our publisher’s site. 
  Software Architecture: Foundations, Theory, and Practice  at Amazon.com. 
  Software Architecture: Foundations, Theory, and Practice  at Barnes and Noble. 
  Interests and Past Experience 
 Although my primary work is in software architecture, I occasionally dabble in other areas.  I am particularly interested in intellectual property law, specifically as it relates to software.  I consulted for Plaintiff’s counsel in   Amado v. Microsoft  , a software patent infringement case. At work, I also do research in the areas of high performance computing and wireless sensor networks. 
 Contact Information 
 Please see the  contact information page . 
 

 
			  
		 

			Copyright © Eric M. Dashofy | Theme adapted from   Simplistic Blue   | Powered by   Wordpress  
		 
	 
 

</body> 