 The Computable Plant<body>

 
	
      
  	  
      
      
	  
      


	 
        	  The Computable Plant 
          
          
           
                Home  
                Publications  
                People  
                Outreach  
                Software  
                Gallery  
                Links  
                Tutorials  
                Sponsors  
           
          
          
          
           
           
                The Challenge  
               The Project 
              
           
          
           
              
               
                            
                
              		 Eric Mjolsness , a computer scientist 
              		at  University of California, Irvine  and  Elliot Meyerowitz ,
                    a plant developmental biologist at  California Institute of Technology  will work together to provide a 
                    quantitative and cellular description of plant development. They will study meristem development in Arabidopsis thaliana, the model plant that 
                    has been used extensively in contemporary plant biology research. Meristems are the inner plant tissues, where regulated cell division, pattern 
                    formation and differentiation give rise to plant parts like leaves and flowers. The investigators at Caltech will use green fluorescent proteins
                    to mark specific cell types in the apical meristem and image their lineages through meristem development and differentiation leading to specifi 
                    arrangement of leaves and reproductive growth. Automation of image acquisition and analysis will help them generate and visualize a vast amount 
                    of data, which will be used by the UCI investigators to model cells and their patterns in the developing meristem and simulate developmental 
                    processes under different conditions. These simulations will result in predictions that will be tested experimentally using mutants, altered 
                    hormone gradients, and other manipulations. 
              	 
              
                
               		Biological experimentation in this project uses cleverly designed 
               		transgenic plants with marker proteins and modification of known developmental genes. The bioinformatics component will manage a vast amount of 
                    image and knowledge data. The mathematical component will automatically generate specialized, efficient simulation code from models and link it 
                    to suitable bioinformatic datasets through pattern recognition, machine learning, and regulatory circuit inference algorithms. Extensive 
                    visualization, image processing, and optimization software will fit these predictive models to image data. Scientific objectives of this effort
                    include the development and use of such mathematical modeling software for plant development, as well as its use to explore alternative 
                    hypotheses in silico and to guide in vivo experiments. Thus the project will involve a working loop from experiments, through bioinformatics and
                    mathematical modeling, and back to experiments.
               	 
               
               
              
          

 



</body> 