 
	tlatoza – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
		
 	   	  		 Author Archive 
 	  
				 
				  Visit to MobileWorks  

				 
                	 December 8, 2013   Thomas visited MobileWorks, a Berkeley based startup providing a platform for microtask crowdsourcing. Thomas gave a demo of CrowdCode and had a great discussion! 
				 

				   Posted in   Travel  |     Comments Off  on Visit to MobileWorks    

			 

				 
				  New workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering  

				 
                	 December 8, 2013   Thomas is co-organizing a new workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSI-SE), in conjunction with ICSE 2014. The workshop will be a one day event with invited talks, a poster and demos session, and a crowd-based working session giving participants the opportunity to explore the application of crowdsourcing to software engineering and begin to forge […] 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on New workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering    

			 

				 
				  Paper on Calico to appear at CHI 2014!  

				 
                	 December 8, 2013   Our paper, Supporting Informal Design with Interactive Whiteboards, was accepted for inclusion at CHI 2014! Hope to see you in Toronto! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Paper on Calico to appear at CHI 2014!    

			 

				 
				  2013 ACM Distinguished Scientists  

				 
                	 November 20, 2013   André was recognized as one of the 2013 ACM Distinguished Scientists. A big congratulations to André! ACM announcement 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on 2013 ACM Distinguished Scientists    

			 

				 
				  Article published in Empirical Software Engineering Journal  

				 
                	 October 1, 2013   Looking to evaluate a software engineering tool in a study with developers? Check out our new ESE journal article for options, standard practices, and tradeoffs, grounded in a literature review of over 1700 software engineering papers. article 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Article published in Empirical Software Engineering Journal    

			 

				 
				  CrowdCode at CrowdConf  

				 
                	 September 11, 2013   Our abstract, CrowdCode: A platform for crowd development, was selected for both a poster and a talk at CrowdConf! Hope to see you in San Francisco. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on CrowdCode at CrowdConf    

			 

				 
				  ISR Research Forum  

				 
                	 May 30, 2013   SDCL is excited to welcome visitors to our lab for the ISR Research Forum. We have demos lined up of several of our research projects and are looking forward to exchanging ideas with both fellow researchers and developers from industry. If you’re in Irvine, we hope to see you there! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on ISR Research Forum    

			 

				 
				  SCALE meeting in snowy Pittsburgh  

				 
                	 April 1, 2013   Several SDCL members attended the SCALE meeting in Pittsburgh, presenting work in progress talks on crowd development, crowd debugging, social-technical code search, and topic mining. And we also had an opportunity to practice our snowball throwing skills. 
				 

				   Posted in   Travel  |     Comments Off  on SCALE meeting in snowy Pittsburgh    

			 

				 
				  SDCL ICSE Papers  

				 
                	 February 28, 2013   SDCL will be presenting the following papers at ICSE 2013: Research track PorchLight: A Tag-Based Approach to Bug Triaging Gerald Bortis and Andre van der Hoek Education track Enabling a Classroom Design Studio with a Collaborative Sketch Design Tool Dastyni Loksa, Nicolas Mangano, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek MISE Workshop Light-weight Analysis of […] 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on SDCL ICSE Papers    

			 

				 
				  SCALE meeting in Nebraska  

				 
                	 September 11, 2012   Four SDCL members visited Lincoln, NE for the SCALE meeting, joining collaborators at Carnegie Mellon and UNL in the cornfields. SDCL presented work on several ongoing projects including crowdsourced programming, tagging code, and triaging bugs. Andre gave a talk surveying the past, present, and future of SDCL. And we discussed ways of further involving industry […] 
				 

				   Posted in   Travel  |     Comments Off  on SCALE meeting in Nebraska    

			 

		        
		         
              « Previous Page  
              
              
         
                
	 
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 