 Profile: Nithya Sambasivan @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 From India to Ghana 

 
 

 
 Alumna joins Google.org, continues research on technology use in developing countries 
 
 
  
Nithya Sambasivan
 
 
 
Nithya Sambasivan ’s academic career began in Chennai, India, where she earned a B.S. in engineering, but she decided to pursue her graduate studies 8,000 miles away from home. 
 
 
After earning a master’s degree in Human Computer Interaction at the Georgia Institute of Technology, Sambasivan (Ph.D. '12) enrolled in the informatics doctoral program at UC Irvine, conducting research that allowed her to combine her knowledge and skills with her passion for making a difference, especially in medium- to low-income countries, like her native India.
 
 
She successfully defended her dissertation, “Production of Use: Re-conceptualizing ‘The User’ in Low-Income Communities in Urban India,” in spring 2012 and continues her work on developing countries in her new role at  Google.org . As a user experience researcher with the philanthropic division of Google, Sambasivan researches Internet technologies in Ghana and other countries in sub-Saharan Africa. 
 
 
“Some of the largest digital technology user groups are emerging in developing countries,” Sambasivan says. “For example, India is the world’s fastest-growing mobile market, adding 7 million phones per month, and Kenya has 9 millions users of M-PESA, a mobile money service (as of March 2012). Most of these people are first-time users of information technology and come from areas that are economically poor with a high rate of illiteracy. In addition, many of these areas have unstable infrastructures and expensive bandwidth. It is important for researchers to understand how these users are creating access to and using technology, flavoring them with their social and cultural values. These insights may not only help us design better technologies but also possibly leverage them toward socio-economic development.”
 
 
  
Sambasivan (far right) with domestic workers 
As part of her doctoral thesis, Sambasivan spent 12 months in India, researching the role that digital technology plays among disadvantaged groups in the cities of Bangalore and Chennai. Her work — conducted in conjunction with Dr. Edward Cutrell at Microsoft Research India and supported by a Google Anita Borg scholarship and a UCI Dean’s fellowship — has contributed to the understanding of technology use among the low-income communities of slums, urban sex workers and urban micro-enterprises (low-capital, informal shops like street-side flower sellers) in India. Her work has been awarded the Best of CHI (Computer-Human Interaction) honorable mention three times and has appeared in the popular press, including  NewScientist  magazine. In 2010, she received a UC Irvine Public Impact Fellowship honorable mention.
 
While mobile phones are not uncommon in the slums of Bangalore, many people lack literacy or the skills to operate them. Sambasivan found the problem is circumvented by intermediated interactions — when people ask other, more tech-savvy community members to use the devices on their behalf. 
 
 
“A person might ask a neighbor who is considered to be a local technology expert to help with mobile phone use, and in return they will watch the neighbor’s children, cook a meal for them, or trade favors,” Sambasivan explains. “The spirit of community is very strong.” 
 
 
  
NGO worker shares information from a printout
 
“We also saw an expansion of information boundaries, otherwise closed to the community, through a social process,” she recalls. “For example, since the slum sites had zero PC penetration, in response to a slum resident’s medical problem, a nongovernmental organization field worker went to the nearest cyber café, looked up the condition online, printed out relevant information, and went back to the slum and read it aloud to the residents.”
 
Sambasivan said she hopes her work in this area can help companies better meet the needs of economically disadvantaged technology users — by creating devices that are easier to use and that support multiple users in cultural and economic contexts where sharing is common. 
 
 
Sambasivan and Cutrell also collaborated with Pragati, a nonprofit organization that helps urban sex workers in Bangalore by offering health care, microfinance and counseling services. Pragati’s field workers, who were senior sex workers themselves, visited the sex workers in the field to collect loan payments and monitor health checkups. Sambasivan and Cutrell found that while this face-to-face system was built upon trust, it suffered from logistical challenges. They soon discovered that mobile phones could be an ideal platform for communicating with this segment of the population, as sex workers in Bangalore rely heavily on their cell phones to conduct business. (About 97 percent of the sex workers own a cell phone, compared to the national average of 61 percent.)
 
 
  
Sambasivan conducts field interview 
Sambasivan, Cutrell and fellow researcher Bill Thies then developed a phone broadcasting system that sent audio reminders to sex workers about medical testing for HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases, as well as payment deadlines for microfinance loans offered by Pragati. The women were contacted in regional languages with pre-recorded audio messages that used the voice of a senior field worker at Pragati, who many of the sex workers recognized and trusted.
 
The initial success of the system was remarkable. Approximately 82 percent of the women picked up the calls; of those, 81 percent listened to the entire message. Later, the number of women who listened to the entire message jumped to 90 percent as the reminders decreased in length from 31 to 13 seconds. 
 
 
“I was fortunate to have had a fantastic advisor in Professor  Bonnie Nardi , who was very supportive in letting me explore new directions in research and has helped me become a better scholar,” Sambasivan says of her time at UC Irvine. “One of the greatest things about UCI and the Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences is the focus on interdisciplinary work, which was extremely helpful in broadening my intellectual perspective. I took courses in Social Ecology on poverty policies, in Anthropology on ethnography, in Management on social media, in Sociology on statistics — all of which helped me understand the big picture of people and technology in context and taught me ways to more effectively gather, understand and analyze data.” 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 