 Analysis of Algorithms<body>
 CS 263, Spring 2014: Analysis of Algorithms 

 This course meets Tuesdays and Thursdays, 12:30 - 1:50 in  ICS
180 . Coursework will consist of weekly homeworks, graded during the
class period on which they are due , and a final exam . Group work on
homeworks is permitted and encouraged. The course is primarily aimed at
graduate students doing research in discrete algorithms, but other CS
graduate students are also welcome. 

 Tentative list of topics: 
  Week 1:  Monte
Carlo algorithms  and
the  probabilistic
method . Basic concepts of probability
theory. Program checking,  Freivalds'
algorithm  for checking matrix multiplication,
the  Schwarz-Zippel-de Millo-Lipton method  for testing polynomial identities, and its
application to bipartite
matching. The  isolation
lemma  for reducing search problems to problems with unique
solutions.  Primality
testing .  Homework 1, due April 10 . 
 Week 2: Balls and bins. Maximum bin size for  hash
chaining  and  load
balancing .
The
 power of two choices  and  cuckoo hashing . The  birthday
paradox  and  Pollard
rho . The  coupon
collector's problem ,
the  Chernoff
bound ,
and  random
graphs .
  Homework 2, due April 17 . 

 Week 3: Approximation algorithms.  Set cover  and its greedy approximation.  Linear programming relaxation ,  randomized rounding , the  method of conditional probabilities  for derandomization, and the  equivalence of the derandomized relaxation with the greedy algorithm .  Maximum cut , randomized 1/2-approximation,  semidefinite programming 0.878-approximation .
  Homework 3, due April 24 . 

 Week 4: Hardness of approximation. Probabilistically checkable
proofs. The  unique
games conjecture .  Homework 4, due May 1 . 

 Week 5:  Markov
chains , stationary distributions,  total variation
distance, and   mixing
time .  PageRank ,
 
random walks on graphs , and approximate random sampling using
rapidly mixing Markov chains. Equivalence between approximate sampling
and approximate counting.  
Approximating the volume of convex bodies .  Homework 5, due May 8 . 
 Weeks 6-7: Exponential time algorithms. Brute force search,
backtracking algorithms,  3-coloring, and constraint
satisfaction .  Random walks for
3-satisfiability . Dynamic programming for the traveling salesman
problem.  Inclusion-exclusion  for graph coloring and bin packing.  Measure and conquer , and  quasiconvex
optimization of backtracking recurrences   Homework 6, due May 15 .  Homework 7, due May 22 . 
 Week 8:  Parameterized complexity  and fixed parameter tractability.
The importance of choosing the right
parameter:  the
clique problem  parameterized by clique size and by degree.
 Kernelization 
and  vertex cover .
 Longest
paths , shallow backtracking,
and  color coding .  Homework 8, due May 29 . 
 Week 9-10:  graph minors ,
 pathwidth ,
 treewidth ,
 bidimensionality ,
well-quasi-ordering, Courcelle's theorem.  Homework 9, due June 5   Homework 10, due June 12 .
 
    David Eppstein , 
 ICS ,  UC Irvine .  </body> 