 CS 262, Winter 2010<body>
 CS 262   Computational Complexity   Winter 2010 
   Instructor  
Sandy Irani   4042 Bren Hall
 
 irani@ics.uci.edu
  Class Times and Place 
MWF 11:00AM-11:50AM
 
ICS 243
 
No class: Jan 18, 20, 22  
Will schedule one make-up lecture.
  Course Overview  
The study of computational complexity is concerned with the question of
what can we computed with limited resources (time, space, randomness, parallelism, communication, etc.).
We will define general classes of problems that can be solved with a particular set of
resources and will study the relationships between these classes.
We will provide proofs for many of  the known relationships between these classes.



  Prerequisites  
The best course to have taken in preparation for this class is
an undergraduate class on automata theory. An undergraduate class in
algorithms is also good background. The course, however, is fairly self-contained
and should be accessible to
any student who is comfortable with mathematical abstraction and proofs.

  Course Requirements  
Problem sets will be given every   week, handed out Friday and due the following Friday.
There will be a take-home final exam.
 
  Homework Policies:  
The homework exercised are an essential part of this course
because the practice solving problems is important part of
understanding the material. You can probably find many of the
solutions to the homework exercises on the internet or in the
literature but you will not get the benefit of solving the problems
on your own. Therefore, the only sources you are allowed to consult
in solving  these problems are the text and notes from class
(your own or those of a classmate).
  
I encourage you to work in small groups, but you must note your
collaborators on the homework you turn in. In addition, you must
write up your own solutions without any collaboration.
  
You are also encouraged to put your solutions into LaTeX.
Here is a template that you can use:
 
Homework Template
 .
    Reading list  
It is recommended that you have access to:
   Computational Complexity , by Christos Papadimitriou, Addison Wesley, 1993, ISBN: 978-0201530827 
   Lecture Topics and Homework  

   
Week
 
 
Topic
 
 
Homework
 
   
Week 1
 
 
Models of Computation, Time and Space Complexity
 
 
  Homework 1      LaTeX Source  
 
   
Week2
 
 
Non-determinism
 
 
  Homework 2      LaTeX Source  
 
   
Week 3
 
 
CLASS CANCELLED.
 
 
No Homework
 
   
Week 4
 
 
Circuits, Uniformity and advice, the NC hierarchy
 
 
  Homework 3      LaTeX Source  
 
   
Week 5
 
 
Randomness: ranomized complexity classes, error reduction, pseudo-randomnumber generators.
 
 
  Homework 4      LaTeX Source  
 
   
Week 6
 
 
Randomness: error-correcting codes, transforming worst-case hardness into average-case hardness.
 
 
-
 
   
Week 7
 
 
Alternation and the Polynomial Hierarchy
 
 
  Homework 5      LaTeX Source  
 
   
Week 8
 
 
Interactive Complexity Classes
 
 
-
 
   
Week 9
 
 
Probabilistically Checkable Proofs and Hardness of Approximation
 
 
  Homework 6      LaTeX Source  
 
   
Week 10
 
 
Counting Complexity Classes, Relativization and Natural Proofs
 
 
  Homework 7      LaTeX Source  
 
  </body> 