 Butterworth Product Development Competition @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Butterworth Product Development Competition 

 
 

  Annual student contest spotlights bright ideas  
 
Ten teams of future entrepreneurs gathered May 17 in Bren Hall to compete in the final round of the 9th Annual Butterworth Product Development Competition. Organized by the Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences, the contest promotes the creation of commercially viable technology and products while fostering entrepreneurship among undergraduate and graduate students. 
 
 





 
 
The competition began in January with 19 teams and more than 60 students. Its namesake, Paul Butterworth (B.S. ’74, M.S. ’81), is chief technical officer of AccessG2 Inc.
 
 
“This was, by far, the most impressive group of competitors we’ve seen over the last nine years,” said judge Kevin Kinsey, CEO and co-founder of Netreo, who has been involved with the Butterworth Competition since it debuted in 2003. “Each of the finalists gave me a sense that they were trying to solve a real need.  It was a tremendously difficult decision to come up with the Top 3.”
 





 
 BUTTERWORTH COMPETITION 2012 WINNERS: 


   
  “PORTFELO”   1 st  place — $5,000  
 Portfelo is creating a new experience for people in the modeling industry (photographers, models, make-up artists, hair stylists and wardrobe stylists) to market their portfolio and network with each other. While current tools (such as Linkedin, Facebook, Twitter, 4ormat, ModelMayhem) solves a small portion of the challenges the industry currently experiences, Portfelo aims to be the solution to the industry’s pain points. 
  Team Portfelo:  Michael Cupino (leader), Ferdinand Lucero, Jordan Speer, Evan White, Danielle Yu 
  Mentor:  Tony Crisp (B.S. ’92, School of Biological Sciences), CEO and Brand Strategist, CRISP Brand Agency 


   
  “SPAWND”   2 nd  place — $3,500  
 Spawnd is a social networking website for online gamers that couples the concept of online social networking with an innovative incentive where the more you play, the more you can earn discounts and rewards on your favorite games and accessories. Spawnd works to tear down console-to-console gaming barriers through its patent-pending universal ‘Spawnd Point’ system that allows gamers to compare stats and rankings across different gaming platforms. Users of Spawnd can surf profiles of gaming friends, get the latest gaming news, and even host custom tournaments all while racking up ‘Spawnd Points’ that can be allocated toward rewards and discounts. 
  Team Spawnd:  Rohan Venapusala (leader), Ryan Reyes, Bellal Labanieh, Naren Sathiya, John Junyszek  
  Mentor:  Ash Kumra, Co-Founder of DesiYou and DreamItAlive.com  


   
  “M-PRESCRIPTION”   3 rd  place — $1,500  
 M-prescription is an alternative solution for prescription transaction. It uses a patient’s mobile phone to store prescription information, instead of paper or an Internet server. In this way, M-prescription provides more security and privacy protection, as well as convenience, to users (patients). The prescribers can also benefit from its simplified work flow and prescribing decision support. In addition, the pharmacies are less dependent on Internet connection during prescription transactions; thus, a more robust transaction base is achieved. Moreover, the pharmacies that are outside the M-prescription network can also use its service through land call or multimedia messaging service.  
  Team M-prescription:  Jianlin Shi (leader), Chandra Bhavanasi, Jeffrey Tse  
  Mentor:  Channa Samynathan (B.S. ’96, Bren School of ICS), Solutions Architect, Independent  


 





 
 BUTTERWORTH COMPETITION 2012 FINALISTS: 




   
  “APPROVE”  
 Public transport (e.g., bus service) has always had the problem of delay associated with boarding time of passengers. There are hassles associated with the current system of paying by cash in the fare box or by card swiping. Approve is a mobile application that lets a passenger pay for the ticket or verify the details of the bus pass prior to boarding the bus, while waiting at the stop. There are several other features, like real-time location tracking and providing a platform for advertisements for the public transport authority, thus making the experience of public transport smart and comfortable.  
  Team Approve:  Venu Madhav Gundeti (leader), Pramit Choudhary, Swapnil Chavan  
  Mentor:  Channa Samynathan (B.S. ’96, Bren School of ICS), Solutions Architect, Independent  


   
  “DEVUE MUSIC”  
 Devue aims to be a mobile platform through which users can submit etudes, scores, music pieces and other excerpts through a website. Through pitch detection from the mobile application, users will be able to receive instant feedback as to how well they played a piece. With Devue, the user can have access to potentially unlimited etudes to practice from, through the Devue store. Each etude is submitted by other musicians and can be accessed by other users to practice a special skill set, or just general playing skills. Devue offers a mobile, end-to-end solution that is revolutionary in music education.  
  Team Kiwi:  Jason J. Lee (leader), Juan Cortez, Kevin Lu, Albert Law,  Andrew Ouyang  
  Mentor:  Kojiro Umezaki, Assistant Professor, Music, Trevor School of Arts  


   
  “OPTINERARY”  
 Optinerary (OPTimal itINERARY) is an activity recommendation and scheduling mobile application that generates optimized itineraries for business and time-constrained travelers on the go. The system optimizes itineraries based on information regarding different activities and spatio-temporal conditions; it analyzes users’ travel information such as location, time, travel mode and preference settings to generate personalized itineraries with routing information for activities, including tourist attractions, local businesses (restaurants, shopping centers, etc.) and local events (concerts, sports games, festivals, etc.). Optinerary makes complex activity planning on mobile phones an easy task.  
  Team Optinerary:  Hang Liu (leader), Dmitri Arkhipov  
  Mentor:  Brian Dao (B.S. ’03, Bren School of ICS), Managing Partner, Alpha Sprouts  
  Advisor:  Joseph Chow (Ph.D. ’10, Samueli School of Engineering), Postdoctoral Scholar, UCI Institute of Transportation Studies  


   
  “PICTORRIA”  
 Pictorria is a web-based image understanding service capable of analyzing a photo’s visual and contextual data and extracting information from it in order to facilitate the development of photo-related applications. Pictorria is capable of recognizing faces, people, landmarks, scenes, text and many other objects of interest. Users of our service can use this data to create personalized applications such as finding and matching a specific set of visual objects.  
  Team Pictorria:  Mohsen Hejrati (leader), Brian Russell Reinhart  
  Mentor:  Ramesh Jain, Bren Professor, Computer Science, Bren School of ICS  
  Advisors:  Mohammad Rastegari, Maryland University, and Matthew Redmond (B.S. ’11, Samueli School of Engineering)  


   
  “RIMS (RFID INVENTORY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM)”  
 Utilizing the latest in RFID technological development, Rims (RFID Inventory Management System) takes aim at industry standard inventory management for retail businesses. Rims is a revolutionary new form of inventory management and business solution that can completely alter the landscape of how products are managed and sold to consumers. Rims provides not only analytical statistics on products moving in and out of a store, but also provides live location-based inventory statistics. The beauty of Rims is that it not only provides retail businesses a new solution in managing inventory, but it also provides a gateway for consumers to view select inventory statistics (e.g., physical location in store and number of stock) at the discretion of the retail business.  
  Team ShakeNBake:  Minda Wang (leader), Manuel Yang, Jonathan Chang  
  Mentor:  Don Patterson, Associate Professor, Informatics, Bren School of ICS  


   
  “SMARTHOME”  
 SmartHome aims to provide an easier method for users to control their home appliance by their cell phones with a graphic user interface through telecommunication networks. It allows users to communicate with the appliance remotely and at their needs.  
  Team Megaline:  Zonglin Guo (leader), Zi-shun Huang, Xiaoyi Zhang  
  Mentor:  Ian Harris, Associate Professor, Computer Science, Bren School of ICS  


   
  “WHOBOT”  
 WhoBot is a shopping application that gives users real-time news feed of products that their friends have recently purchased or wanted to recommend to their social group. It serves as a place where people come to talk about shopping only. Through WhoBot, users can create a social network with the use of their contact list and share their shopping adventures with their friends. This application aims to create a more reliable and enjoyable shopping experience for users.  
  Team WhoBot:  Maryam Khademi (leader), Bryant Pham  
  Mentor:  Don Patterson, Associate Professor, Informatics, Bren School of ICS  




   
 







 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 