 output <body>
   Understanding the CloseUp output format  
     
  Output format options   
   
If you run CloseUp through the closeup.pl script, then you should have elected for plain text, or MySQL output format. The MySQL data will be in a file called filename.mysql (where 'filename' is your original output filename). The plain text parser creates two files: filename_detail.txt; and filename_overview.txt.
  
If for some reason you do not have these files, you can parse your output file again using closeup2mysql.pl or closeup2txt.pl
 
   
  MySQL tables   
   

The MySQL parser will create information for two tables. This can be sent into your MySQL database by entering

 
mysql -p database 

The tables have the following format:

   Detailed results  lists every marker pair for every collinear run identified. The table has the format:
    c1  reference chromosome
   c2  compared chromosome
   marker  marker name
   c1_pos  position of the marker on c1
   c2_pos  position of the marker on c2
   block_id  id number for the collinear run (block)
   id  unique id number for every pair listing
     Results overview  lists summary information for each collinear run. There is only one line for each run.
   c1  reference chromosome
   c2  compared chromosome
   len  number of pairs involved in the collinear run
   sum_square  sum of square statistic used for significance calculations
   c1_s  start position of the run on c1
   c1_e  end position of the run on c1
   c2_s  start position of the run on c2
   c2_e  end position of the run on c2
   sig  significance level of the collinear run
   block_id  id number for the collinear run (block). This matches with the block_id in the Detailed Results table
   id  another unique id number for every listing
      
  Plain text tables   
   

The plain text parser will create two tables in two files.


The tables have the following format:

   Detailed results  (filename_detail.txt) lists every marker pair for every collinear run identified. Different runs are separated by a line with several "=" signs, the block id number, and the chromosomes between which the collinear run was identified.
 The following lines list the marker names involved in the run, and the position on each chromosome. For example

  
========== id: 65756 BETWEEN Chr 4 and Chr 2
                    uaz42     52.5     21.0
                    uaz43     52.5     21.0
                    uaz45     52.5     21.0
                    uaz46     52.5     21.0
                    uaz48     52.5     21.0
                    uaz69     52.5     24.7

 

lists detailed information for run number 65756, which pairs a region on chromosome 4, with a region on chromosome 2. The six markers involved in the run are listed, with their position on chromosome 4, and 2 respectively (it will always be true that the positions are listed under the relevant chromosome name).

   Results overview  (filename_overview.txt) lists summary information for each collinear run. There is only one line for each run.
   c1  reference chromosome
   c2  compared chromosome
   # markers  number of pairs involved in the collinear run
   ss  sum of square statistic used for significance calculations
   c1s  start position of the run on c1
   c1e  end position of the run on c1
   c2s  start position of the run on c2
   c2e  end position of the run on c2
   sig  significance level of the collinear run
   id  id number for the collinear run (block). This matches with the id in the Detailed Results table
     </body> 