 Secure Group Services for Storage Area Networks<body>
    Secure 
Group Services for Storage Area Networks    
 
       
                     
                 
   
              
         
         
                                  Continued 
                                growth and popularity of the Internet fuels 
                                increased reliance on e-business which often 
                                involves data-intensive applications. Consequently, 
                                the amount of  information that needs to 
                                be stored and managed can become quite intimidating. 
                                Traditional centralized storage servers, which 
                                have been the workhorses of the industry, are 
                                often unable to meet the storage needs of large 
                                organizations. To this end, they are being replaced 
                                by network attached disks and, more recently, 
                                by Storage Area Networks (SAN-s). A SAN represents a 
                                scalable and reliable storage network that enables efficient 
                                any-to-any connectivity between hosts and storage 
                                devices and provides improved overall resource 
                                utilization. Therefore, SAN-s indeed signify 
                                a major step in the evolution of network storage. 
                                A critical requirement in such a distributed storage 
                                system is the security and integrity of stored 
                                data. Although this problem has been studied 
                                intensively in the past, certain unique features 
                                of the SAN setting result in some new security 
                                challenges. In this project, we concentrate 
                                on safeguarding data (stored on a SAN) from 
                                various threats and attacks with the further 
                                emphasis on efficient key management.  
         
       
             
           
     
 
       
                     
                 
   
              
         
         
              The goal of the project is twofold:  
                                       to 
                                        provide a security architecture for 
                                        preserving privacy and integrity of 
                                        SAN data.   
                                           to 
                                        provide efficient key management solutions 
                                          
                                           
                                   System 
                                Model:   
                                     
                                  A Storage 
                                Area Network, as seen from the perspective of 
                                a host or a disk, is a network infrastructure 
                                that forwards, in an efficient and reliable 
                                way, both data blocks and commands. The SAN 
                                infrastructure is essentially a collection of 
                                network devices such as high-end switches for 
                                IP or Fibre Channel networks or storage   routers. 
                                We use the term SAN entities to refer to these 
                                network devices  .   
                                  In most SAN 
                                frameworks the actual data owner can control, 
                                fully or in part, the SAN administration. This 
                                is the case in a typical enterprise scenario 
                                as well as in the Storage Service Provider (SSP) 
                                model (where SSP companies sell storage as a 
                                service to their customers). The fact that the 
                                data owner controls the SAN enables the powerful 
                                concept of virtualization for data security. 
                                We utilize these entities to actively 
                                enforce data security policies.   
                                  The notable 
                                features of our approach are as follows:  
                                   We delegate 
                                    the bulk of the cryptographic operations 
                                    to the SAN entities essentially freeing 
                                    the hosts from the cryptographic burden. 
                                    A host only needs to establish a secure 
                                    link with the SAN perimeter. Thus, the level 
                                    of user inconvenience introduced by our 
                                    system is minimal.  
                                      Since 
                                    SAN entities are entrusted with the cryptographic 
                                    duties, key management only involves these 
                                    (relatively) few entities, as opposed to 
                                    involving all possible hosts in the system.  
                                      We recognize 
                                    the peer nature of the SAN entities that 
                                    are authorized to virtualize a secure volume. 
                                    Exploiting this feature, we propose two 
                                    different key management approaches: one 
                                    based on a simple Public Key Infrastructure 
                                    (PKI). The second approach is based on peer 
                                    group key agreement techniques.  
                                  
       
             
           
     
                     
           
    Gene 
Tsudik   , Project Leader, UC Irvine  
         
    Fabio 
Maino   , Research Collaborator, Andiamo 
Systems  
         
    Yongdae 
Kim   , Research Collaborator, UMinn, 
Twin Cities  
         
    Maithili 
Narasimha   , Graduate Student Researcher, 
UC Irvine  
     
                     
            Y. Kim, F. Maino, M. Narasimha and G. Tsudik     "Secure Group Services for Storage-Area Networks" 
               2002 IEEE International Workshop on Storage 
Security, December 2002.    kmnt02.pdf     
  
        
 SISW 2002, Greenbelt, Maryland, December 2002    pdf   
       
</body> 