 Understanding the Requirements for Information System Documentation: An Empirical Investigation | Virtual Collaboration Portal 


    

     
     

       
         
           Virtual Collaboration Portal            

                     Home  
  Groups  
  Collaborators  
   

               
           
  
   
  Search this site:  
  
 

 
            

   Navigation 

      Bibliography    Authors  
  Keywords  
  
  Reading Lists  
  Web Links  
  Gallery  
  Recent posts  
  Acknowledgements  
  
 
 

   User login 

   
  
  Username:  *  
  
 
  Password:  *  
  
    Request new password  
   
 
 
         
      
          
            Home  ›  Bibliography                                 Understanding the Requirements for Information System Documentation: An Empirical Investigation                                                    
             

 
   


       Mon, 2009-08-24 14:37 — walt 
  
   
           Title  Understanding the Requirements for Information System Documentation: An Empirical Investigation     Publication Type  Conference Proceedings     Year of Publication  1995     Authors   Jazzar, A. , and  W. Scacchi      Secondary Authors   Comstock, N. , and  C. Ellis      Conference Name  ????????     Pagination  268-279     Keywords   Complex organizational settings ,  Developers ,  Empirical investigation ,  Hypotheses ,  Information system documentation requirements ,  Information systems ,  Large industrial corporation ,  Large IS development efforts ,  Software documents ,  System documentation ,  Users ,  Variables      Abstract   Software and information systems (IS) documents are a common product of large IS development efforts. These documents are produced and consumed through a variety of documentation processes. These processes involve developers and users working within complex organizational settings, as well as with the focal system under development. These organizational settings facilitate and constrain IS documentation and development efforts in complicated ways. Accordingly, we present, analyze, and compare cases from field studies of three different IS development efforts in a large industrial corporation. Based on these studies, we identify a new set of variables and hypotheses that we believe represent a more plausible set of requirements for IS documentation products and processes in different organizational settings. In this regard, we utilize the concept of viewing IS documentation requirements as hypotheses to be tested, refined, or refuted. 
         

   
     
         

               Login  to post comments  
  
       

 
           
                      
           

      
      
   


  </body> 