 
ECHT'94:Chimera<body> 

 
 
 Chimera: Hypertext for Heterogeneous Software Environments  
 Kenneth M. Anderson ,  Richard N. Taylor ,  E. James Whitehead, Jr.   Department of Information and Computer Science   University of California, Irvine 
 
 Abstract 
Emerging software development environments are characterized by heterogeneity: they are composed of diverse object stores, user interfaces, and tools. This paper presents an approach for providing hypertext services in this heterogeneous setting. Central notions of the approach include the following. Anchors are established with respect to interactive views of objects, rather than the objects themselves. Composable,  n -ary links can be established between anchors on different views of objects stored in distinct object bases. Viewers (and objects) may be implemented in different programming languages afforded by a client-server architecture. Multiple, concurrently active viewers enable multimedia hypertext services. The paper describes the approach and presents an architecture which supports it. Experience with the Chimera prototype and its relationship to other systems is described. 

   

   Categories and Subject Descriptors 
   H.5.1 [Multimedia information systems]    D.2.2 [Software Engineering] 	 Tools and techniques 
   I.7.2 [Document preparation] 	 Hypertext/hypermedia 
   General Terms 	 Design, Experimentation 
   Additional Key Words and Phrases 	 heterogeneous hypertext, hypertext system architectures, link servers, separation of concerns, software development environments. 
   

 Table of Contents 
    Introduction 
	   Hypertext Concepts 
	   Conceptual Architecture 
   Chimera Server 
		   Process Invoker 
		   Chimera Client 
		   External Systems 
     Implementation Architecture 
   Chimera Server 
		   Process Invoker 
		   Chimera Client 
		   External Systems 
		   Metrics 
     Future Work 
   Versioning 
		   Collaborative Hyperweb Construction 
     Related Work 
   The Dexter Hypertext Reference Model 
		   Virtual Notebook System 
		   Sun's Link Service 
		   Hyperform 
		   Microcosm 
		   System Prototype 0, 1, 2, and 3 
     Conclusions 
	   Acknowledgments 
	   References 
   
This material is based upon work sponsored by the Advanced Research Projects Agency under Grant Number MDA972-91-J-1010. The content of the information does not necessarily reflect the position or the policy of the Government and no official endorsement should be inferred. 


  
 
This page is part of the  Chimera  web site. 
Send feedback and questions to  Ken Anderson . 
Last updated on Thu, Sep 19, 1996 at 12:34:39 PM. 
 
</body> 