 Scratch Protein Predictor<body>
  
	  


 SCRATCH: A Quick Description 

 Methods 

   SSpro 

 SSpro is a server for protein secondary structure prediction based on protein evolutionary
information (sequence homology) and homologous protein's secondary structure (structure homology).
For a detailed explanation of the methods, please refer to the references listed at the bottom
of this page. SSpro currently achieves a performance exceeding 79% correctly classified residues
on proteins with no homologs in the PDB and exceeding 92% correctly classified residues on proteins
where homologs can be found in the PDB, ranking on top of the tested prediction servers. 
  Download SSpro 5.2 (free for academic use) 

   SSpro8 

 SSpro8 is an extension to SSpro. Instead of using three classes (helix, strand and the rest)
to assign the secondary structure of a protein, SSpro8 adopts the full DSSP 8-class output
classification: 
  H: alpha-helix 
 G: 3-10-helix 
 I: pi-helix (extremely rare) 
 E: extended strand 
 B: beta-bridge 
 T: turn 
 S: bend 
 C: the rest 
  For a detailed description of the tests performed on SSpro8, see the references. The overall
performance of the system currently online is approximately 67% correctly classified residues on
proteins with no homologs in the PDB and above 87% when homologs can be found in the PDB.
 NOTE : SSpro8 is a completely different system from SSpro. Their results may not match. 
  Download SSpro8 5.2 (free for academic use) 

   ABTMpro 

 ABTMpro is a server that predicts whether a given protein sequence is a transmembrane protein.  If the given protein sequence is a transmembrane protein, ABTMpro further predicts the probabilities of the protein being an alpha helical transmembrane protein or a Beta Barrel transmembrane protein. 
The prediction framework consists of a Support Vector Machine, which utilizes features such as amino acid composition and properties, reduced alphabet composition, predicted secondary structure, evolutionary information etc. 
The overall accuracy of ABTMpro is upwards of 97%, and achieves MCC values of 0.93 and 0.94 on smaller data sets and MCC values of 0.85 and 0.63 on much larger tests for alpha helical and beta barrel transmembrane proteins respectively.
 

   CONpro 

 CONpro is a server that predicts whether the number of contacts of
each residue in a protein is above or below the average for that
residue. The prediction of CONpro is based on 1D-RNNs, adopting as
input a multiple alignment of homologues generated by PSI-BLAST.  The
threshold radius at which residues are considered in contact is at
12&amp;Aring.  The accuracy of CONpro is 73%. The complete system is an
ensemble of 10 1D-RNNs.  For a more detailed explanation, see in the
references. 

   ACCpro 

 ACCpro is a server for the prediction of the relative solvent accessibility of protein residues.
The prediction of ACCpro is based on 1D-RNNs, adopting as input a multiple alignment of homologs
generated by PSI-BLAST.  Each residue in a protein is predicted as buried or exposed, i.e. more or
less accessible than a specified threshold. For the 25% threshold, the 'hard' case corresponding to
practically identical numbers of buried and exposed residues, ACCpro correctly classifies ~79% of
the residues and up to 90% when homologs exist in the PDB, better than any other system previously
described. For a more detailed explanation, see in the references. 
  Download ACCpro 5.2 (free for academic use) 

   ACCpro20 

 ACCpro20 predicts the relative solvent accessiblity at all thresholds between 0% and 95%
at 5% increments. It is a 20-class variant of ACCpro predictor. Performance of the system
currently online is at the same level than ACCpro predictor in the hard case (25% accessibility
threshold), and higher for the other thresholds. 
  Download ACCpro20 5.2 (free for academic use) 

   DOMpro 

 DOMpro predicts domain locations using a 1D-RNN. DOMpro takes an input
the sequence profile, predicted secondary structure, and predicted
relative solvent accessiblity.  The output of the 1D-RNN is a
classification for each residue as being in a domain boundary region
or not.  The domains are then infered from this output.
For a more detailed explanation, see the manuscript in references.  
 Download DOMpro 1.0 executable for Linux (free for academic use) and the datasets used to train DOMpro. 

   DISpro 

 DISpro uses a 1D-RNN to predict the probablity that residues are
disorder.  The probabilities are also thresholded at probablity .5 to
make a hard classification.  The input to DISpro is the sequence
profile, predicted secondary structure, and predicted relative solvent
accesiblity.
For a more detailed explanation, see the manuscript in references.    Download the dataset used in training DISpro here.  
 
 Download DISpro 1.0 executable for Linux (free for academic use) 

   DIpro 

 DIpro is a cysteine disulfide bond predictor based on 2D recurrent
neural network, support vector machine, graph matching and regression
algorithms. It can predict if the sequence has disulfide bonds or not,
estimate the number of disulfide bonds, and predict the bonding state
of each cysteine and the bonded pairs. It yields the best accuracy on
the benchmark dataset Sp39. It can handle any number of disulfide
bonds where most of methods available so far only can handle less than
6 disulfide bonds.  

 Procedure: The seqeunce is processed in two steps. Step 1, use support
vector machine to classify if the sequence has disulfide bonds or
not. Step 2, use neural network and graph algorithm to predict the
number of bonds, bond pattern.
For a more detailed explanation, see in references.   Download DIpro 2.0 software(free for academic use) 
   Download the dataset used in training DIpro here.  
 

   CMAPpro 

 CMAPpro is a server for the prediction of maps of contacts between protein residues.
The prediction of CMAPpro is based on ensembles of Deep Neural Networks, which take into
account the spatial dependencies of contact occurrences in local neighborhoods.
The input of the system consists of two-dimensional profiles extracted from multiple
alignments of homologues generated by PSI-BLAST, secondary structure and solvent
accessibility predictions obtained respectively from SSpro and ACCpro, and predicted
coarse contacts and orientations between secondary structure elements using two-dimensional
Recurrent Neural Networks. Maps at 8&amp;Aring are available, meaning that two amino acids are
defined as being in contact if their C-β atoms (C-α for glycines ) are closer than 8&amp;Aring.
For a description of the tests performed on CMAPpro, see the references. 
   SVMcon 

 SVMcon predicts medium- to long-range residue-residue contacts using
Support Vector Machines. The contact predictions are in the CASP
format (residue index 1, residue index 2, 0, 8, contact probability).
The contact distance threshold is 8 angstrom. The sequence separation
between two residues is at least 6 residues. For information, see the references.  Mirror Server 
  [Download SVMcon 1.0] 
  [Download SVMcon Training Set] 
  [Download SVMcon Test Set]  

 For commercial license, please contact: igb-license [at] ics [.] uci
[.]edu 

   3Dpro 

 
3Dpro is a server that predicts protein tertiary structure. 3Dpro uses
predicted structural features, and PDB knowledge based statistical terms in
the energy function. The conformational search uses a move set consisting of
fragment replacement (using a fragment library built from the PDB) as well as
random perturbations to the model. Moves are selected or rejected based on a
simulated annealing method with linear cooling. Multiple models are
constructed using random seeds and the model with the lowest energy is
selected as the final prediction. 3Dpro is currently a de nuvo method
(structural templates are not used).
 

 The results of 3Dpro's performance at CASP6 can be found  here . 

   SOLpro 

 SOLpro predicts the propensity of a protein to be soluble upon
overexpression in  E. coli  using a two-stage SVM architecture
based on multiple representations of the primary sequence. Each
classifier of the first layer takes as input a distinct set of features
describing the sequence. A final SVM classifier summarizes the resulting
predictions and predicts if the protein is soluble or not as well as the
corresponding probability. 
 Download SOLpro (free for academic, non commercial, use). 

   ANTIGENpro 

 ANTIGENpro is a sequence-based, alignment-free and pathogen-independant predictor
of protein antigenicity. The predictions are made by a two-stage architecture based
on multiple representations of the primary sequence and five machine learning algorithms.
A final SVM classifier summarizes the resulting predictions and predicts if the protein
is likely to be antigenic or not as well as the corresponding probability.
ANTIGENpro is the first predictor of the whole protein antigenicity trained using
reactivity data obtained by protein microarray analysis for five pathogens. 

   VIRALpro 

 VIRALpro is a predictor capable of identifying capsid and tail protein sequences using
support vector machines (SVM) with an accuracy estimated to be between 90% and 97%. Predictions
are based on the protein amino acid composition, on the protein predicted secondary
structure, as predicted by SSpro, and on a boosted linear combination of HMM e-values
obtained from 3,380 HMMs built from multiple sequence alignments of specific fragments
- called contact fragments - of both capsid and tail sequences. 
 Download VIRALpro 1.0 (free for academic use) 
   Input formats 

 Email 

 Your email address, the place where the prediction will be delivered.
NOTE: Check that you typed your address correctly. Approximately 5% of
the queries handled by SSpro 1.0 didn't receive an answer because of
incorrect typing. 

 Query name 

 An optional name for your query. We strongly suggest that you use one,
especially if sending more than one query. The order in which you send
your queries may not correspond to the order in which you receive the
answers. 

 Input sequence 

 The sequence of amino acids:

   A bare sequence is accepted. Please no FASTA format. 
 Spaces, newlines and tabs will be ignored, so feel free to have them in your query. 
 Letters not corresponding to any amino acid will be treated as X. 
 Non alphabetical chars will cause the rejection of the query. 
 Only 1 letter amino acid code accepted. Please do not send
      nucleotide sequences. If so, A will be treated as Alanine, C as
      Cysteine, etc... 
    Output format 

 Replies are sent by email. SSpro, SSpro8, ACCpro, ACCpro20, DOMpro,
DISpro, DIpro, CONpro, SOLpro, ANTIGENpro, and VIRALpro replies come as text,
embedded in the body of the email.  Here you have an example of prediction: 

 
 
Name: short  
Amino Acids: 
MQIFVKTLTGKTITLEVEPSDTIENVKAKI  
Predicted Secondary Structure: 
CEEEEEEECCCEEEEEECCCCCHHHHHCCC  
Predicted Secondary Structure (8 Class): 
CEEEEEEEESEEEEEEECCCSHHHHEECCC  
Predicted Relative Solvent Accessiblity (at 25% exposed threshold): 
ee---ee-eeee-e-e-eeeee-ee-eeee  
Predicted Relative Solvent Accessiblity (20 Class): 
0%   eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
5%   eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
10%  eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
15%  eee--eeeeeee-e-eeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
20%  eee--ee-eeee-e-eeeeeeeeee-eeee 
25%  eee--ee-eeee-e-e-eeeeeeee-eeee 
30%  ee---ee-eeee-e-e-eeeee-ee-eeee 
35%  ee---ee-eeee-e-e-eeeee-ee-eeee 
40%  ee---ee-eeee-e-e-eeeee-ee-eeee 
45%  ee---e--eee----e---ee--ee-eeee 
50%  ee--------e--------e---ee-eeee 
55%  e----------------------e---eee 
60%  e--------------------------eee 
65%  e---------------------------ee 
70%  -----------------------------e 
75%  ----------------------------e 
80%  -----------------------------e 
85%  -----------------------------e 
90%  ------------------------------ 
95%  ------------------------------ 
100% ------------------------------  
Predicted Contact Number: 
------------------------------  
Predicted Disordered Residues: 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOODD  
Predicted Disorder Probability: 
0.16 0.07 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.06 0.06 0.12 0.13 0.20 0.17 0.18 0.20 0.23 0.48 0.55 0.58  
Predicted Domains: 
Domain 1: 1 - 30  
Predicted Disulfide Bonds: 
Input sequence has LESS THAN TWO cysteins and therefore cannot form disulfide bonds.  
Predicted Contact Maps: 
SEE ATTACHMENTS  
Predicted Solubility upon Overexpression: 
SOLUBLE with probability 0.901803  
Predicted Capsid/Tail Sequence: 
Capsid Sequence : YES (distance = 0.266294) 
Tail Sequence   : NO  (distance = -0.344029)
 
 

 The predictions have the following meaning: 

  Amino Acids: The 1-letter code of your protein primary
      sequence. This line is always present.
 

 SSpro: secondary structure prediction:
  H = helix 
 E = strand 
 C = the rest 
  

 SSpro8: 8-class secondary structure prediction:
  H: alpha-helix 
 G: 310-helix 
 I: pi-helix (extremely rare) 
 E: extended strand 
 B: beta-bridge 
 T: turn 
 S: bend 
 C: the rest 
  

 ACCpro and ACCpro20: Prediction of relative solvent accessibility:
  - : the residue is buried 
 e : the residue is exposed 
  

 CONpro: Predictions of number of residue contacts at 12Å relative to the
      amino acids average number of contacts:
  - : the residue has fewer contacts than average 
 + : the residue has more contacts than average 
  


 DISpro: Predictions of number residue order/disorder:
  O : the residue is ordered 
 D : the residue is disordered 
 
In addition, probabilities of disorder are provided.
 

 DOMpro: Prediction of domains: 
Domain index: start residue - end residue
 

 DIpro: Prediction of disulfide bonds: 
DIpro makes two predictions.  First, DIpro predicts if disulfide bonds exist
in the protein.  Second, DIpro predicts the location of the bonds.  These
predictions are made independent of each other.  In this sample prediction,
there are not enough cysteins to form a disulfide bond.
 

 CMAPpro: Prediction of contact maps: 
 The predictions come as attached raw files, named contact_map.8a and
 contact_map.12a. If the query is N amino acids long the files are composed of
 N lines, each containing N space-separated real numbers. The j-th number on
 line i-th represents the estimated probability that amino acids i and j are
 in contact (i.e. of their C-αs being closer than the threshold). 

 3Dpro: Prediction of tertiary structure: 
The predictions come in a separate email and contain a pdb file with the
coordinates of the C-&amp;alpha atoms. 

 SOLpro: Prediction of solubility upon overexpression: 
SOLpro predicts if the protein is soluble or not (SOLUBLE/INSOLUBLE)
and gives the corresponding probability (≥ 0.5). 

 VIRALpro: Prediction of capsid &amp; tail proteins: VIRALpro predicts
if the input protein sequence is a capsid sequence or a tail sequence (YES/NO
for each). The absolute value of the corresponding score is the distance to the
decision boundary of the SVM and can be used for ranking purposes. 

   Note:  Since CMAPpro and 3Dpro predictions are computationally intensive only
proteins of length at most 400 amino acids will be accepted if CMAPpro or
3Dpro predictions are selected. 

  Return to SCRATCH  
 References 

  For the server and SSpro/ACCpro 4.0 software package, please refer to:     

 J. Cheng, A. Randall, M. Sweredoski, P. Baldi, SCRATCH: a Protein Structure and Structural Feature Prediction Server,  Nucleic Acids Research , vol. 33 (web server issue), w72-76, 2005.
 [PDF] 
 [PDF at NAR website]
 
 [Download SSpro/ACCpro 4.0] 
   For the  SSpro/ACCpro 5.2 software package , please refer to: 

 C.N. Magnan &amp; P. Baldi,
"SSpro/ACCpro 5: almost perfect prediction of protein secondary structure and
relative solvent accessibility using profiles, machine learning and structural similarity",
 Bioinformatics , 30 (18), 2592-2597, 2014. 
Download  PDF 
 
Abstract &amp; HTML  (Bioinformatics Website)    For an explanation of the  methods used in SSpro and SSpro8  see:
  G.Pollastri, D.Przybylski, B.Rost, P.Baldi, "Improving the Prediction of Protein Secondary Structure
in Three and Eight Classes Using Recurrent Neural Networks and Profiles",  Proteins , 47, 228-235, 2002.
 Download   
 PDF, 
 Abstract and HTML 
(Proteins web site).    For an explanation of the  methods used in ACCpro and CONpro  see:

    G.Pollastri, P.Baldi, P.Fariselli, R.Casadio, "Prediction of Coordination Number and
Relative Solvent Accessibility in Proteins",  Proteins , 47, 142-153, 2002.
 Download
 PDF, 
 Abstract and HTML
(Proteins web site)     For an explanation of the  methods used in DOMpro  see:

  J. Cheng, M. Sweredoski, P. Baldi, "DOMpro: Protein Domain Prediction Using Profiles, Secondary Structure, Relative Solvent Accessibility, and Recursive Neural Networks",
  Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , vol. 13, no. 1, pp. 1-10, 2006.
 Download
 PDF ,
 

 For an explanation of the  methods used in DISpro  see:

  J. Cheng, M. Sweredoski, P. Baldi, "Accurate Prediction of Protein Disordered Regions by Mining Protein Structure Data",
 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery , vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 213-222,  2005.
 Download
 PDF  , PDF at DAMI web site 
 

 For an explanation of the  methods used in DIpro  see:
 
J. Cheng, H. Saigo, P. Baldi, "Large-Scale Prediction of Disulphide Bridges Using Kernel Methods, Two-Dimensional Recursive Neural Networks, and Weighted Graph Matching", Proteins, vol. 62, no. 3, pp. 617-629, 2006.  [PDF]  [PDF at Proteins website] 
 [Download DIpro 2.0] 
 Or
 P.Baldi, J. Cheng, A. Vullo, "Large-Scale Prediction of Disulphide Bond Connectivity",   Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2004) 17 ,L. Saul ,Y. Weiss, and L. Bottou editors, MIT press, pp.97-104, Cambridge, MA, 2005.
 Download
 PDF ,
 

 For an explanation of the  methods used in CMAPpro  see:

  P. Di Lena, K. Nagata, P. Baldi, "Deep Architectures for Protein Contact Map Prediction",  Bioinformatics , 2012. In press 
 Download  PDF , HTML abstract  (Bioinformatics web site)     

  P. Di Lena, K. Nagata, P. Baldi, "Deep Spatio-Temporal Architectures and Learning for Protein Structure Prediction",   Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS) , 2012. Accepted for presentation.

  G.Pollastri, P.Baldi, "Prediction of Contact Maps by Recurrent Neural Network Architectures and
Hidden Context Propagation from All Four Cardinal Corners",  Bioinformatics , 18 Suppl 1, S62-S70 (2002).
 Download
 PDF ,
 HTML abstract 
(Bioinformatics web site).   

 For an explanation of the  methods used in SVMcon  see:   
J. Cheng and P. Baldi. "Improved Residue Contact Prediction Using
Support Vector Machines and a Large Feature Set."  BMC Bioinfomatics. 
8:113, 2007.
 Download
 [Download SVMcon 1.0]  

 
  
For an explanation of the  methods used in COBEpro :  
Michael J. Sweredoski and Pierre Baldi.
"COBEpro: a novel system for predicting continuous B-cell epitopes." 
Protein Engineering Design and Selection 2008; doi:
10.1093/protein/gzn075  
Download  PDF ,
 HTML 
(Bioinformatics website)
 
  Return to SCRATCH  


 
</body> 