 Lars Otten, UC Irvine<body>
  

   
            Lars Otten 

    
      

      
    
      Graduate Student Alumnus (Ph.D.)   Email: 
     

     I was a graduate student in Prof.  Rina
    Dechter's  group, working towards a Ph.D. in  Artificial
    Intelligence and Machine Learning  in the  School of Information
    and Computer Sciences  at  UC Irvine . I began my studies in the Fall of 2006
    and have successfully defended my dissertation in March 2013. 

       

      
     Research   – 
    
     Personal   – 
     Publications   – 
     Software 
     
       Research  

     My area of concentration is probabilistic inference and
    constraint reasoning, or more generally inference in graphical
    models. The unifying theme of my research lies in exploiting
    problem structure to solve various kinds of inference tasks. The
    input is often formulated as constraint satisfaction and
    optimization problems (CSPs / WCSPs) as well as queries over
    Bayesian and Markov networks (e.g., P(e), MPE, belief
    updating). These problems are typically NP-hard. 

     I have investigated methods like variable elimination and
    belief propagation for exact and approximate reasoning, but the
    focus of my thesis work is on search methods for optimization. The
    underlying general framework of AND/OR search spaces allows
    capturing independencies as well as redundancies among
    subproblems. Over time my work on these inference methods has also
    increasingly intersected with distributed computing and
    statistical learning. 

     In particular, the main contributions of my graduate work are
    as follows: 
    
      I have studied anytime performance of AND/OR Branch and
    Bound for optimization problems. My scheme  Breadth-Rotating
    AOBB  achieves better performance with unchanged asymptotic
    complexity guarantees, yielding successively better solutions
    faster; this turns it into a viable approximation scheme while
    maintaining completeness. 

     I have developed distributed versions of our state-of-the-art
    sequential AND/OR search algorithms. The assumed parallel
    framework is very general (loosely coupled, independent worker
    nodes with minimal communication). We have empirically demonstrated
    good parallel speedup on several hundred machines. 

     I have investigated learning of statistical regression models
    for complexity prediction of the aforementioned inference
    schemes. These estimates are crucial, for instance, in achieving
    efficient load balancing in the distributed implementation. Other
    possible applications include guidance in parameter selection for
    the respective algorithms. 

      Applications are manifold, but one driving factor in our
    experimental evaluation are haplotyping and linkage problems over
    general pedigrees in human genetic analysis (under a joint NIH
    grant with computational biologists and statisticians). These
    queries can be modeled as Bayesian networks and are thus
    susceptible to our advanced inference methods. Other relevant
    problem domains include medical diagnosis, scheduling and
    planning, information theory, and image segmentation. 
    
    

      An entry based on my AND/OR Branch and Bound implementation
     placed first  in all three MPE tracks of the  PASCAL 2011
    Probabilistic Inference Challenge . A previous version of my
    solver placed third in the  UAI'10 Approximate
    Inference Challenge . Before that, I was involved in organizing
    the  UAI'08
    Probabilistic Inference Evaluation . 

     My implementation of sequential and distributed AND/OR Branch
    and Bound can be  downloaded below  (full
    source code under GPL); our research group also maintains a
    (slightly outdated) website where we make available some of the
    algorithms that were developed in the
    past:  http://graphmod.ics.uci.edu/  

       
       Personal  

     Before coming to UCI I was a student at  RWTH Aachen
    University  in Aachen, Germany and  Chalmers University of
    Technology  in Gothenburg, Sweden, from which I obtained a
    M.Sc. degree in Dependable Computer Systems in 2006. 

     I maintain a (sparse) personal webpage at  www.lotten.net . 

    

    

       
       Dissertation  

       Extending
	  the Reach of AND/OR Search for Optimization in Graphical
	  Models. .  Lars Otten .  Ph.D. Thesis,
	  2013.  
      Journal Articles 

       A System
      for Exact and Approximate Genetic Linkage Analysis of SNP Data
      in Large Pedigrees . Mark Silberstein, Omer Weissbrod,
       Lars Otten , Anna Tzemach, Andrei Anisenia, Oren Shtark,
      Dvir Tuberg, Eddie Galfrin, Irena Gannon, Adel Shalata, Zvi
      U. Borochowitz, Rina Dechter, Elizabeth Thompson, Dan Geiger. To
      appear in   Bioinformatics  ,
      2012. ( Supplementary material ) 

        Anytime
      AND/OR Depth-first Search for Combinatorial
      Optimization .  Lars Otten  and Rina Dechter. In
        AI
      Communications Vol. 25(3)  , 2012.
       Extended Abstract 
      in  Proceedings of  CP'14  . 

       Peer-Reviewed Publications  

       Caching in
      Context-Minimal OR Spaces . Levi Lelis, Rina Dechter, and
       Lars Otten . In  Proceedings of
       SoCS'15  , Ein
      Gedi, Israel, June 2015. 

        Memory-Efficient
      Stratified Sampling for Search Tree Size Estimation in Graphical Model
      Optimization . Levi Lelis,  Lars Otten , and Rina Dechter. In
       Proceedings of  CP'14  , Lyon,
      France, September 2014. 

        Predicting
      the Size of Depth-First Branch and Bound Search Trees .
      Levi Lelis,  Lars Otten , and Rina Dechter. In  Proceedings of
       AAAI'13  ,
      Bellevue, WA, July 2013. 

        A Case
      Study in Complexity Estimation: Towards Parallel
      Branch-and-Bound over Graphical Models .  Lars Otten  and Rina
      Dechter. In  Proceedings of  UAI'12  , Catalina
      Island, CA, August 2012. 

        Join-Graph-Based Cost-Shifting
      Schemes . Alexander Ihler, Natalia Flerova, Rina Dechter, and
       Lars Otten . In  Proceedings of  UAI'12  , Catalina
      Island, CA, August 2012.

         Advances
      in Distributed Branch and Bound ,  Lars Otten  and Rina
      Dechter. In  Proceedings of  ECAI'12  , Montpellier, France, August 2012. 

        Anytime
	  Depth-first Search for Combinatorial Optimization , Lars
	  Otten and Rina Dechter. In  Proceedings of 
	   SoCS'11  , Barcelona, Spain, July 2011. 

        Pushing
	  the Power of Stochastic Greedy Ordering Schemes for
	  Inference in Graphical Models , Kalev Kask, Andrew
	  Gelfand,  Lars Otten , and Rina Dechter. In  Proceedings of
	   AAAI'11  , San Francisco, CA,
	  USA, August 2011. 

        Finding Most Likely Haplotypes in General
      Pedigrees through Parallel Search with Dynamic Load
      Balancing  ,  Lars Otten  and Rina Dechter. In  Proceedings
      of  PSB'11  , The Big Island of Hawaii, USA, January
      2011.  

        Towards
      Parallel Search for Optimization in Graphical Models , Lars
      Otten and Rina Dechter. In  Proceedings of  
      ISAIM'10  , Fort Lauderdale, FL, USA, January 2010. 

        Maximum
      Likelihood Haplotying through Search on a Grid of Computers ,
       Lars Otten , Rina Dechter, Mark Silberstein, and Dan Geiger. In
       Proceedings of  RECOMB'09  , Tucson, AZ,
      USA, May 2009. 

        Refined
      Bounds for Instance-Based Search-Complexity of Counting and
      Other #P Problems ,  Lars Otten  and Rina Dechter. In
       Proceedings of  CP'08  , Sydney,
      Australia, September
      2008.  [LNCS Link]  (also
      available:  extended workshop version ) 

        On the
      Practical Significance of Hypertree vs. Tree Width , Rina
      Dechter,  Lars Otten , and Radu Marinescu. In  Proceedings
      of  ECAI'08  , Patras, Greece, July 2008. 

        Bounding
      Search Space Size via (Hyper)tree Decompositions ,  Lars Otten 
      and Rina Dechter. In  Proceedings of  UAI'08  , Helsinki,
      Finland, July 2008. 

        Randomization in
      Constraint Programming for Airline Planning ,  Lars Otten ,
      Mattias Grönkvist, and Devdatt Dubhashi. In  Proceedings
      of  CP'06  ,
      Nantes, France, September
      2006.  [LNCS link]  
      Workshops 

       Winning the
      PASCAL 2011 MAP Challenge with Enhanced AND/OR
      Branch-and-Bound ,  Lars Otten , Alexander Ihler, Kalev
      Kask, and Rina Dechter. In
        DISCML'12 Workshop  ,
      at NIPS'12, Lake Tahoe, NV, USA, December 2012. 

        Learning
      Subproblem Complexities in Distributed Branch and Bound ,
       Lars Otten  and Rina Dechter. In
        DISCML'11 Workshop  ,
      at NIPS'11, Granada, Spain, December 2011. 

        Mini-bucket
      Elimination with Moment Matching , Natalia Flerova, Alexander
      Ihler, Rina Dechter, and  Lars Otten . In
        DISCML'11 Workshop  ,
      at NIPS'11, Granada, Spain, December 2011. 

        Anytime
      Depth-First Search with Problem Decomposition for Optimization
      in Graphical Models ,  Lars Otten  and Rina Dechter. In
        GKR'11
      Workshop  , at IJCAI'11, Barcelona, Spain, July 2011. 

        Load
      Balancing for Parallel Branch and Bound ,  Lars Otten 
      and Rina Dechter. In   SofT'10 Workshop 
      and  CRAGS'10 Workshop  , at CP'10,
      St. Andrews, Scotland, September 2010. 

        Refined
      Bounds for Instance-Based Search-Complexity of Counting and
      Other #P Problems (Extended version) ,  Lars Otten  and Rina
      Dechter. In   
      Counting Workshop '08  , at CP'08, Sydney, Australia,
      September 2008. 

        Bounding
      Graphical Models Processing by Hypertree Width ,  Lars Otten 
      and Rina Dechter. In  Doctoral Programme of  CP07  , Providence,
      RI, USA, September 2007. 

        
       Software  

     Available for download below is my sequential AND/OR Branch and
    Bound (AOBB) implementation called  daoopt  that solves MPE
    or similar max-product queries over Bayesian or Markov
    networks. It implements both standard depth-first AOBB and
    Breadth-Rotating AOBB as introduced in our SoCS'11 paper
    ( PDF ) for
    improved anytime performance. Both variants use the Mini Bucket
    heuristic for pruning and to guide the search. The full source
    code also includes distributed AOBB as described in my
     dissertation  .  

      Outdated: precompiled  daoopt-0.99.5a  (32 bit static Linux binary). 
       Full  source release  under GPL License. 
      The problem specification should be
    in  UAI file format , gzipped input is
    supported. Run the program with the  --help  argument to see
    a list of options, and feel free to contact me with questions. In
    general I'd be happy to hear from you if you're using the
    solver. 

       
   
</body> 