 Chimera Archives: 2-4/97<body>

   
             Chimera Archives February-April, 1997 
         

         
              
       
             
                 Home 
             
         

         
             
                 What's New Archives: 02/97 to 04/97 
             

 April 22, 1997 

 
  Two major changes made to the 2.0 alpha release. 
 (5:00 PM PST) 
 
 
 
Switched to using buffered network i/o. This simple change resulted
in a 4x increase in performance! Our average message roundtrip was
about 110 milliseconds previous to this change. It is now 25 milliseconds!
 
 
Switched to using a hand-written file database rather than continue to
use the Java Object Persistence mechanism. Thus, JOP is now longer
needed to use Chimera 2.0. In the future, we may switch to using
Java's Object Serialization. That switch will have to wait until the
beta version when we switch to JDK 1.1 this summer.  Because of this
change, you will have to recreate any hyperwebs that you have
constructed with former alpha versions of Chimera 2.0.  If this is
a problem, contact Ken Anderson (kanderso@ics.uci.edu) for help with
converting the old webs to the new format.
 
 
It is highly recommended that you download the latest version of the
alpha release from the  software  page!
 
 
 

 April 15, 1997 

 
  Very minor change to the source code of the 2.0 alpha release. 
 (10:25 AM PST) 
 
 
 
Removed references to JOP.persist.PersistableArray from viewer_JOP.java and
link_JOP.java. If you have downloaded the source code release prior to this
day, be sure to delete the  import JOP.persist.PersistableArray 
statements from these two files. You may have problems compiling the release
otherwise.
 
 
 

 April 14, 1997 

 
  Updated the  
Test Installation  instructions. 
 (4:14 PM PST) 
 
 
 
The instructions for verifying the installation of Chimera contained two
errors. The instructions have been updated to remove these errors. In
particular, an environment variable for the hyperwebManager was incorrectly
specified, and the instructions failed to specify how to add machine names
to the Servers panel of the Chimera server.
 
 
 

 
  Updated the  
Step by Step  installation instructions. 
 (4:04 PM PST) 
 
 
 
Instructions were added to specify the correct use of the chimeraJOP.zip
file.
 
 
 

 
  Added Chimera JOP Class Files to the
 software  page. 
 (3:50 PM PST) 
 
 
 
Several key files with respect to the Java Object Persistence system
were left out of the chimera20a.zip file. As a result, those users who
use the chimera20a.zip file directly instead of compiling the source code
will have the hyperweb server fail when trying to write its hyperwebs.
 
 
The solution to the problem is to download the chimeraJOP.zip file and
unpack it in JOP's persistmarshall class directory. This will enable the
JOP to function correctly when trying to write Chimera related information
into a database. See the
 Installation Instructions  for
more details.
 
 
 

 March 6, 1997 

 
  Small update made to the released source code and class files. 
 (12:00 PM PST) 
 
 
 
Another minor update has been made to the 2.0 alpha release. In particular,
a dependence was removed on a library not listed on the
 Before you Install  page.
This could cause problems when trying to compile the source code or
using the class files, since the referenced library would not be available.
 
 
If you downloaded the source and class archives from the
 Software page  before
March 6, 12:00 PM PST, be sure to update your copy.
 
 
 

 March 3, 1997 

 
  Small update made to the released source code and class files. 
 (4:30 PM PST) 
 
 
 
A very small change has been made to the source code archives and class file
archive that was released on February 28th. In particular, the files
 hwmunixInvoker.java  and  hwmunixInvoker.class  were replaced.
 
 
If you downloaded the source and class archives from the
 Software page  before
March 3, 4:30 PM PST, be sure to update your copy.
 
 
The problem prevented the hyperwebManager from automatically invoking the
hyperwebServer and chimeraServer. The fix now allows this auto-invocation
to take place.
 
 
 

 February 28, 1997 

 
  Chimera 2.0 site goes on-line.  
 
 
This is the alpha release of Chimera 2.0. Not all features have been
implemented. Not all bugs have been squashed.
 
 
This web-site is also at the alpha-level. Not all pages have been
written.
 
 
 

           
       </body> 