 IETF WEBDAV Working Group Home Page<body>
          IETF WEBDAV Working Group  
    World Wide Web Distributed Authoring and
  Versioning      Working Group Overview 
   Introduction 
   Charter 
   Meeting Minutes 
   Flyer  (PDF, 23K)
   DAV Frequently
Asked Questions (FAQ) 
  See  webdav.org , the WebDAV
resources site for developer and ongoing project information.
  Sign up for WebDAV-enabled storage accounts at  Sharemation  or
 My Docs Online! 
   WebDAV client, server, and API implementations 
   Discussion Lists 

  General.  The main discussion list for the WebDAV Working Group is
&lt;w3c-dist-auth@w3.org&gt;.  Joining this discussion list makes you
a member of the working group. 

      Joining.  Send an email with "Subject: subscribe" to
 
&lt;w3c-dist-auth-request@w3.org&gt; 
 . 
     Archives.  [ hypertext archive ] 
[ FTP archive ]
[ European
mirror ]. 

  Versioning.  The mailing list for
discussion of versioning and variant authoring topics is
&lt;ietf-dav-versioning@w3.org&amp;gt. This is the main discussion list
for the DeltaV working group, and joining the list makes you a member
of the working group.

       Joining.  Send an email with
"Subject: subscribe" to
 
&lt;ietf-dav-versioning-request@w3.org&gt; 
 . 
     Archives.  [ hypertext archive ]

   Access Control.  The mailing list for discussion of
remote access control capabilities is &lt;acl@webdav.org&gt;. This is
a sub-working group of WebDAV.

       Joining.  Fill out the subscription
form at  http://mailman.webdav.org/mailman/listinfo/acl .

 
     Archives.  [ hypertext archive ]

  Related Working Groups 

   DASL  - DAV
Searching and Locating.  This group is working on searching
facilities for DAV repositories.
   Delta-V  -
Web Versioning and Configuration Management.  WebDAV wasn't able to
finish versioning, so Delta-V is picking up where WebDAV left off,
extending the Web with versioning and configuration management
support.
   Access Control  - This is
a sub-working group of WebDAV, concerned with developing a remote
access control protocol.
   RFCs 

 These documents have been approved by the IESG.

  
  HTTP Extensions for Distributed
Authoring -- WebDAV  
[ PDF (8.5x11, 541K) ]
[ PDF (A4, 278K) ]
[ HTML ]
[ XML 
[ RFC2629 XSLT )] 
[ Française (French) ] 
Yaron Goland, Jim Whitehead, Asad Faizi, Steve Carter, Del Jensen 
[ Issues List 
( Word )] [ Version History ]  
This document specifies the WebDAV Distributed Authoring Protocol, a
set of headers and methods which extend the Hypertext Transfer
Protocol to provide capabilities for overwrite prevention (locking),
properties, and namespace management.  Note that the text version of
the document is the authoritative representation, and if there are
differences between the text version and other versions, the text
version is always correct.  This document has been approved by the
IESG as Proposed Standard RFC 2518. 
 

 
  Versioning
Extensions to WebDAV  
[ HTML ]
[ XML ] 
G. Clemm, J. Amsden, T. Ellison, C. Kaler, J. Whitehead 
[ Issues
List ]
[ Current Activity ]  
This document specifies the DeltaV protocol, which provides
capabilities for remote versioning and configuration management of
remote resources. It also allows people to work on shared collections
of resources in isolation of others' changes, controlling when changes
become visible to other collaborators (workspaces). This document was
developed by the IETF DeltaV Working Group. Note that the text version
of the document is the authoritative representation, and if there are
differences between the text version and other versions, the text
version is always correct.  This document has been approved by the
IESG as Proposed Standard RFC 3253.
 
 
  Web Distributed
Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV) Access Control Protocol  
[ HTML ]
[ XML ]
[ PDF ]
 
Geoff Clemm, Julian F. Reschke, Eric Sedlar, Jim Whitehead  
This document describes access control extensions to the WebDAV
protocol. The protocol allows a client to read and modify access
control lists that control the ability to operate on a resource
using HTTP and WebDAV protocol operations. This document has been
approved by the IESG as Proposed Standard 3744.
 

 
  Web Distributed
Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV) Ordered Collections Protocol  
[ HTML ]
[ XML ]
[ PDF ]
 
Jim Whitehead, Julian Reschke  
This document describes extensions to the WebDAV protocol for
creating and maintaining a persistent ordering of the members
of a collection. This document has been approved by the IESG
as Proposed Standard RFC 3648.
 
 
  Requirements
for a Distributed
Authoring and Versioning Protocol for the World Wide Web  
[ HTML ]
 
Judith Slein, Fabio Vitali, Jim Whitehead, David Durand 
[ Version History ]  
This document describes high-level functional requirements for
distributed authoring and versioning on the Web, and has been issued
as Internet Informational RFC 2291. 
 

 Current Draft Documents 

 Revised Distributed Authoring Protocol (2518bis) 

 
  HTTP Extensions
for Distributed Authoring - WebDAV RFC2518 bis  
L. Dusseault, J. Crawford 
[ Issues List ]  
A normal part of the development of IETF protocols is revision
based on operational experience from deployed implementations. This
document is a revised version of RFC 2518, the WebDAV Distributed
Authoring Protocol. The WG intends for this document to become
a Draft Standard specification. Currently at Internet-Draft
revision 4, July 1, 2003.

  Advanced Collections 

 
  Binding Extensions
to WebDAV  
G. Clemm, J. Crawford, J. Reschke, J. Whitehead 
[ Issues List ]  
A protocol for creating bindings to resources.  A binding is a
referential containment relationship between a collection and a
resource, named by a URL path segment (like "weather.html").  By
making a new binding to a resource, the resource can have multiple
URLs mapped to it. Thus, bindings act somewhat like hard links in
file systems.
 

 
  WebDAV
Redirect Reference Resources  
Jim Whitehead, Geoff Clemm, Julian Reschke 
[ Last Call Issues List ]  
A protocol for creating redirect resources.  A redirect resource
responds to most HTTP methods with an HTTP 302 redirection
response. This protocol allows such resources to be remotely created
and administered. 
 


 
  Requirements
for Advanced Collection Functionality in WebDAV  
Judith Slein, Jim Davis  
This draft sets out requirements for more advanced, optional
collection functionality beyond that supported by the distributed
authoring protocol specification. It extends the base functionality in
two general directions: support for referential members, and support
for ordered collections. Though several years old, this document still
provides a good overview of rationale for advanced collections
capabilities. Currently at Internet-Draft revision 05,
June 18, 1999.  
 

 Versioning and Configuration Management 

 See the  DeltaV Working
Group  pages for the most recent work on protocols for Web
versioning, configuration management, and group work. 

 Property Schemas and Property Extensions 

 
  Datatypes
for WebDAV properties  
J. F. Reschke  
This specification extends the Web Distributed Authoring Protocol
(WebDAV) to support both datatyping and some amount of meta
information on property values. Protocol elements are defined to let
clients and servers specify the datatype and meta information of a
property, and to instruct the WebDAV method PROPFIND to return
datatype and meta information.
 

 
  Including
additional properties in WebDAV PROPFIND/allprop requests  
J. F. Reschke, S. Eissing  
Recent specifications extending the Web Distributed Authoring Protocol
(WebDAV) restrict the set of properties returned automatically upon a
PROPFIND/allprop request. This specification defines a method to add
specific properties to the set of properties returned upon
PROPFIND/allprop.
 

 
  
Use of Dublin Core Metadata in WebDAV  
John Stracke  
This document specifies a standard mapping for using the metadata
vocabulary of Dublin Core in a WebDAV server.  Currently at
Internet-Draft revision 01, June 8, 1999.  &lt;draft-ietf-webdav-dublin-core&gt; 

 
  
Additional WebDAV Collection Properties  
Alex Hopmann, Lisa Lippert  
Describes a set of optional properties for collections which are
useful in displaying navigation interfaces for WebDAV enabled web
sites. Currently at Internet-Draft revision 00, December, 1998. &lt;draft-hopmann-collection-props-00.txt&gt; 

 
  WebDAV
PROPFIND Extension To List Specified Namespaces  
John Stracke  
Describes an extension to the PROPFIND method for requesting only
those properties in a specified namespace.  John Stracke provides
additional rationale for his proposal in
 this
mailing list messsage . Currently at Internet-Draft revision 00,
August 10, 1999. &lt;draft-ietf-webdav-propfind-space-00&gt; 

 
  
Proposed Extensions for WebDAV Properties  
Jim Amsden  
This draft describes three minor extensions to the current
properties protocol: 1) allow PROPPATCH to create and initialize
the properties of a resource that did not exist, 2) distinguish
between adding a new property, and setting the value of an existing
property of a resource, and 3) give client applications more
control in specifying how PROPPATCH errors should be
handled. Currently at Internet-Draft revision 00, September, 1999.
&lt;draft-ietf-webdav-properties-extension-00&gt;
 

 Packaging a Resource Body and Properties 

 
  Encoding
a DAV resource in MIME  
John Stracke  
This document describes a mechanism for encoding a WebDAV resource and
its properties together as a MIME entity.  This document has not been
submitted as an Internet Draft.  First revision, February 25, 1999. 

 Scenarios 

 
  
HTTP-based Distributed Content Editing Scenarios  
Ora Lassila 
[ Version History ]  
This document collects scenarios of usage of distributed authoring
and versioning tools which have been described by working
group members.  Currently at Internet-Draft revision level 00,
May 31, 1997, &lt;draft-ietf-webdav-scenarios-00.txt&gt;. This document
is not currently active, and is unlikely to ever be issued as an
RFC. It provides some insight into the kinds of authoring scenarios
under consideration during the first two years of the WebDAV
working group.
 

	  
 UUID/GUID Specification 

   
UUIDS and GUIDS  
Paul Leach, Rich Salz  
This document describes the format and creation algorithm for
universally unique identifiers (UUIDs).  UUIDs are used in the
WebDAV Distributed Authoring protocol specification for lock tokens.
Currently at Internet-Draft revision 01 (expired), February 4, 1998.
RFC 2518 used the nearly identical specification of UUIDs given
in the ISO RPC specification instead of referencing "UUIDS and GUIDS".
Implementors may use the UUID specification given in this internet
draft to implement WebDAV lock tokens.
 

 Related Standards 

 
  
DMA 1.0 Specification   
The
 
Document Management Alliance  is a task force of the
 Association for Information
and Image Management International (AIIM)  which is charged
with developing an interoperability specification across
document management systems.  The DMA 1.0 specification has been
approved for general use by the DMA Advisory Council as of
December, 1997.  See also the  DMWare  site for further
information on DMA, and ODMA. 

 
  
Open Document Management API   
The Open Document Management API (ODMA) is a standard API
used between client applications and document management systems.
 

 Archival Documents 

 The  working group archives  contain
links to older proposals, as well as related work and systems. 

  
 
University of California, Irvine   
Jim Whitehead &lt;ejw@cse.ucsc.edu&gt;   
Department of Information and Computer Science  
247 ICS2 #3425  
Irvine , CA  92697-3425  
 
Last modified: 03 July 2003
 
</body> 