 Irvine Research Unit in Software (IRUS)<body>
 
 
 
  
  
  

  
IRUS wishes to thank its corporate sponsors:
 

&amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp
  Sustaining  
   
      The Boeing Company    IBM    Microsoft Corporation    Northrop Grumman 
	Corporation    Raytheon Company    Sun Microsystems Laboratories    TRW   

&amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp
  Supporting  
   
    FileNet Corporation    Printronix, Inc.     Continuus Software Corporation     Hewlett Packard Company    Rincon Research Corporation   

  
 
Quotes from our sponsors  


 
"UCI is a technology-rich institution. IRUS has proven to be a
significant channel for technology inputs at Sun."  Dr. Thomas D. Arkwright, Java Architect   Sun Microsystems 

  
"The IRUS software engineering and computer science faculty at 
UC Irvine have shown a consistently high level of commitment to 
working closely with their industry partners. This is reflected in the 
selection of research topics that are relevant to the needs of indus
try, such as hypertext technology, software process support, and 
software testing. It is also reflected in the industry-relevant themes 
of the research colloquia that they organize, such as the California 
Software Symposium. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, it is 
reflected in the ongoing, frequent informal interactions they wel
come and encourage from their industry partners."   Gregory F. Johnson, Principal Engineer    Northrop Grumman Corporation 

  
"IRUS has provided a forum for Boeing to openly communicate 
with academia on topics relevant to its software process improve
ment needs. Boeing's participation in IRUS has also provided the 
opportunity to interact, coordinate and collaborate with other com
panies in the exchange of information, experiences, and ideas that 
are unique to the development of high quality software through 
process improvement."  Paul Arnold, Senior Manager, Software Engineering Technology   The Boeing Company 

  
"Beckman is pleased to continue our sponsorship of the Irvine Research 
Unit in Software. Through a variety of events and forums IRUS provides 
an opportunity for industry and academia to exchange ideas on current 
best practices as well as peek into the future."   Gayle Nobbs, Manager, Software Development Diagnostics Center   Beckman Instruments  

  
"TRW has supported IRUS for the past six years and has been active in 
the Southern California SPIN, California Software Symposium (CSS), 
the Conference on Software Process Improvement (CoSPI), and technol
ogy symposia such as "WIRED: the Internet and the World Wide Web", 
and technical research reviews. IRUS activities have provided us with 
the opportunity to exchange software engineering knowledge with in
dustry, government, and academia."  Barbara Mann, Chair, Data Technologies Division SEPG   TRW  

  
"Printronix is very pleased to be an industry sponsor for IRUS. Software
engineering is a rapidly expanding component of our product develop
ment, and our association with IRUS has provided us with the capability
to network with other companies, and academia, on trends and advance
ments that are important to our engineers. The seminars provide very 
current information and the topics have been quite relevant to our devel
opment environment."  Andy Chapman, Vice President, Engineering   Printronix, Inc. 

  
"The Southern California SPIN and other IRUS programs help FileNet 
engineering managers and staff stay current with the ever-changing 
"state of the practice" in the worldwide software industry. IRUS' collab
orative programs on object-oriented methods, testing, software quality 
assurance, process technology, reuse and metrics have helped us inte
grate new software technology into our engineering practices, which is 
essential if we are to continue to be a major player   in the dynamic
information technology markets of the 90's."  Bill Ball, Director, Software Quality Assurance and Support   FileNet Corporation 

  
"We have been an industry sponsor of IRUS for seven years and continue to be 
an enthusiastic supporter of this new model of industry/university
collaboration. 
The Southern California SPIN, California Software Symposium, Bay Area 
Roundtable (BART), and special events such as the Conference on Software
Process Improvement and World Wide Web and Internet symposium are just a
few of the reasons we feel IRUS has been a WINNER for us!"  Terry Snyder, Corporate Vice-President, Systems and Software Engineering
   Hughes Electronics Corporation  

  
"Northrop Grumman has been a sponsor of IRUS for seven years. 
Software engineering professionals throughout the company fre
quently participate in the various activities that IRUS offers. These 
activities are professionally conducted and contain relevant and 
timely information which the participants can directly apply to 
their work. We are pleased to continue our partnership with IRUS."  Leitha Purcell, Corporate Director for Software Processes    Northrop Grumman Corporation 


  
"Boeing has supported IRUS and the Southern California SPIN since its 
inception. IRUS and its associated programs provide much needed forums for 
industry and academia to communicate on current software 
topics. The continuing high quality of the programs and timeliness of the 
topics are a credit to IRUS."  Donald D. Dillehunt, Director, Software Engineering and Simulation 
  Boeing North American  
  

 Back to the IRUS home page 
   
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science   
University of California, Irvine  
Irvine, CA 92697-3425
 </body>   