 Informatics 41 Syllabus • Fall 2009<body>
  INFORMATICS 41 • FALL 2009 • DONALD BREN SCHOOL OF INFORMATION AND COMPUTER SCIENCES •  UC IRVINE  
 
    Informatics Core Course I      C OURSE  R EFERENCE   
 
  Instructor:    David G. Kay ,
5056 Donald Bren Hall (DBH) (   kay@uci.edu   )  
 
  Teaching assistant:   Joel Ossher  (   jossher@uci.edu   ).  Reader:</strong>  Wiwat Ruengmee  (  wruengme@uci.edu  ).   Lab tutors:  Jordan Speer, Grace Uchida, Tracey Dao, Sandra Yang.  
 
  Quick links:   

 Textbook 

  Assignments  
 Email archive    Past quizzes 
  References 
  Final Exam   
 
  Course goals:   This course is the first
of a three-quarter sequence introducing the field of informatics—computer
science with an emphasis on software and systems design and the human, organizational,
and social context surrounding what we design.  This course will not only
broaden your technical horizons but also focus on systematic problem solving.
 We welcome you and we hope you enjoy it.  
 
  Prerequisite concepts:   This course
does not expect any previous experience in computer science or computer
programming.  If you do have some experience, you will find some topics
familiar but many others will certainly be new to you.  
 
 We do expect each student to be able to navigate
the Windows XP systems in our labs, to navigate the World-Wide Web, to download
and read documents in Adobe Acrobat (pdf) format, and to read and send electronic
mail.  Some of our assignments will require these skills.  If you need to
pick these skills up or sharpen them, do it in the first week of the quarter;
speak with us if you need a hand.  
 
  Meeting place and times:   Lecture meets
six hours each week:  Tuesdays and Thursdays from 11:00 to 12:20 
and also from 2:00 to 3:30 in ICS 174 (room subject to change). Each student must enroll in one of these lab sections: 
1. Monday/Wednesday/Friday from 9:00 to 10:50 a.m. in ICS 189 
2. Monday/Wednesday/Friday from 1:00 to 2:50 p.m. in ICS 189  
  None of these hours are optional. Most of your lab work will be done in pairs,
  so the scheduled lab times are the best times to
  work with your partner.  
 
  Office hours:   You are welcome to drop by my office at any time.  If I'm there and not immersed in something
else, I'll be glad to chat about the course material or other topics.
 I will definitely be in or near my office during these scheduled hours,
during which course-related matters will have first priority:  Tuesdays from 1:00 to 1:45 and Fridays from 11:15 to 11:45. I may adjust these times at the end of the first week. Of course emergencies
may come up, but I will try to give advance notice of any change. I'll
also be happy to make arrangements for other times during the week; "making an appointment" is no big deal (but if you make one, don't blow it off without getting in touch).  The
quickest and most effective way to reach me is by electronic mail, as described
below.  
 
  Questions and announcements:   You can
usually get a response to your course-related questions within a few hours
(a bit less frequently on the weekends) by sending electronic mail to the
ID    i41@uci.edu   .
 This goes to all of us, and whoever reads it first can respond.  If you
need to reach one of us individually, use our individual IDs listed above. I will never intentionally ignore a message, so if you don't receive a response, write again; sometimes overactive spam filters snag a legitmate message. Using course-specific subject lines and your UCInet Email address will help your messages get noticed.  
 
   We may also send course announcements by Email
    to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email daily.
    Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
    has for you (your UCInet ID).    If you prefer to read your Email
  on another account, forwarding instructions appear below.   Don't let this slide; if you miss official
announcements, your grade could suffer.  
 
 This course's web page is at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/i41    and 
official course Email is archived at    http://e3.uci.edu/classmail/F09/37000   .  
 
  Textbooks and software:   How to Design Programs, 
by Felleisen, Findler, Flatt, and Krishnamurthi. We will follow the text closely, but you don't have to buy a copy because you will also find the full text of the book on the web at    http://www.htdp.org   .   The on-line version is slightly more current than
the print version, but many people find it tiresome to read long technical
material on the screen.  
  The DrScheme software we will use is part of the PLT Scheme package, which is available free for all major platforms at   http://www.plt-scheme.org  .  
   Fluency with Information Technology, Second Edition,    by Lawrence Snyder. This text covers the non-programming content of the course. We won't use it for specific assignments, so we've designated it as optional, but some students have found it useful in the past. Its web page is   http://www.aw.com/snyder  .    
 
 At    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/i41/refs.html   
is a list of supplementary references on course topics.  These are not required
reading (unless we tell you otherwise later).  
 
  Labs and lab hours:  Of course you will
need to do some of your work outside of the scheduled Monday/Wednesday/Friday
lab hours.  Students in Informatics 41 may use any of the school's instructional
computing labs except for times when another course is scheduled in the
lab exclusively.  See    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~lab   
for lab hours and other information.   Note in particular that all ICS labs
are closed on university holidays, such as the Friday after Thanksgiving
(but not the Saturday and Sunday).  
 
 Please remember that programming tasks always
take longer to complete than you think they will, no matter how much experience
you have.  You must account for this as you plan your time; we cannot accept
busy schedules or time mismanagement as an excuse for late or incomplete
assignments.  
 
  Course structure:
    Weekly homework assignments and lab assignments   (25% of the course grade). All the assignments
will be available at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/i41/hw/   .
  Class participation:   Based primarily on participating consistently
and effectively in the lab, including turning in a partner evaluation for each lab assignment (10%).
  Weekly quizzes:   Given in lecture every Tuesday morning at 11:00
(30% together).   The previous years' quizzes are available on the web at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/i41/quiz/old   ;
they're an excellent way to prepare and review (but they won't perfectly
mirror the form and content of this year's quizzes).
  One final exam:   On Tuesday, December 8, from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. (35%).  
 
 We determine final grades neither on a formal
curve (with equal numbers of As and Fs, Bs and Ds, and so on) nor on a fixed,
straight scale.  Scores on the scale shown below will get the grades indicated,
but in the past the actual cutoffs have often been lower; this means that
you should not assume your grade will be as low as the scale indicates.
 If you're concerned, check with your TA or the instructos.  The basic
scale is:  grades in the A range (A-, A, and in exceptional cases, A+),
90% and above; grades in the B range, 80%–90%; grades in the C range, 70%–80%.  
 
 Your TA has primary responsibility for evaluating
your work; see the TA first for any questions about grading or scoring. 
If that does not resolve your question, then see the instructor.  We will be happy to correct any errors that do occur, but we
must ask that you bring us your grading questions within a week after the
item is returned; the course moves quickly, and we simply can't deal
with assignments long past.  
 
 We're required to say that in unusual circumstances,
these criteria could change, but we do not expect that to happen.  
 
  Special needs:  Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation due to a disability should contact the UCI Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to explore the possible range of accommodations. We encourage all students having difficulty, whether or not due to a disability, to consult privately with the instructor at any time.   
   What to do this week to get started in Informatics
  41:      —   If you do not have a UCInet ID, get one (see    http://activate.uci.edu/   ).    —   Learn how to read electronic mail sent to your UCInet ID (see    http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/   ). If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
      UCInet account, redirect your mail at    http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html   .    —   If you do not have an ICS account for access to the Windows network in
          ICS, get one.  See    http://www.ics.uci.edu/computing/account_faq.php   .    —   On the Web, go to    checkmate.ics.uci.edu   ,
              log in with your UCInet ID, choose "Course Listing," click "Go"
            next to Informatics 41, and then click "List me for this course."
            You'll submit some of your work electronically; this step is necessary
              to set that up.    —   If you aren't already subscribed to the Informatics Student Association mailing list, INSA-News, subscribe now at   https://mailman.ics.uci.edu/mailman/listinfo/insa-news  . You'll receive notice of student events, company visits, research opportunities, curricular anouncements, and more; you'll miss important things if you're not on this list.   —   Get a lab printing key-card if you plan to do any printing in the lab.    —   Give a snapshot of yourself (with your name written on the back) to your
                  TA.  This will help us learn your names quickly.  (This is not just for
                  fun  —  it's a course requirement.)   —   Complete the survey at    http://eee.uci.edu/survey/i41.f09.q   . 
     Good advice and helpful hints:  Make
  every effort to attend each class meeting; we will often cover material that isn't
  directly in the textbook.  It's not fair to ask the TA simply to repeat
  lecture material you missed, though of course the TA will always answer questions about
  it.  
   Attend your lab section, too;
  assignments will be checked off there, you will do most of your lab work there, and you can hear a different perspective there than you hear in lecture.
  Don't hesitate to ask your TA to cover things that will help you. 
  Since most of your work will be done with a partner, your partner also depends
  on your consistent presence.  
   Check your electronic mail regularly; this
  is an official channel for course announcements.  
   Keep up with the reading; you'll need it
  to do your assignments, and the quarter system goes so fast that a few missed
  pages can quickly become a few chapters if you're not careful.  You
  will want to read the assigned sections early so you can ask us about parts
  that aren't clear.   
   The assignments, like all technical specifications,
  require careful and thorough reading and re-reading.  Expect to refer back
  to the assignment often, and check it first when you have questions about
  what's required or how to proceed.  Before you come to lab, be sure
  to read the assignment to get an idea of what's required.  
   Start each assignment early.  Assignments will
  be due weekly, but you'll need to spend some time on them nearly every
  day.  Programming always takes longer to complete than you think it will,
  even if you have previous programming experience.  By starting early, you'll
  have time to ask in discussion section about problems you encounter.  
   If you find yourself having trouble or getting
  behind, speak with your TA or the instructors.  We have lots of ways to help.
  But  never  take the shortcut of copying someone else's work and
  turning it in; the consequences can be far worse than just a low score on
  a lab assignment.  ICS takes academic honesty very seriously; for a more
  complete discussion, see the ICS departmental web page covering academic
  honesty issues (   http://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/current/policies/index.php   ).  
   Turn in whatever portion of an assignment you
  have completed on the due date.  It's much better to turn in something
  rather than nothing; zeroes are hard to make up.  In some circumstances
  you may arrange with your TA to work further on an assignment after the
  due date, but you must turn in whatever you have when the official due date
  comes.  Likewise, don't skip any quizzes; zeroes (especially more than
  one of them) significantly lower your overall score.  
   Always keep your own copy of each assignment,
  both electronically and on paper; if an assignment should get lost in the
  shuffle (or if a file server in the lab should crash, which has happened),
  we'll expect you to be able to supply a replacement easily.   
    Approximate course outline:   
         Week   
       Date   
       Topics (and chapters in the HtDP* and Fluency texts)   
      0.  
      24 September  
      Introduction to the course and computing (F1,2) •
    Information, data, and functions (H1-3)  
      1.  
      29 September  
      Designing functions, compound data (H4-6)
    • Abstraction, models, and problem solving  
         
      1 October  
      Function definitions and expression evaluation • Internet organization (F3)   
      2.  
      6 October  
      Unions and Lists (H7)  
         
      8 October  
      Lists and list processing (H9,10)  
      3.  
      13 October  
      Working with lists  
         
      15 October  
      Numbers and recursion (H11-13) • Internet services,
    the web and searching (F5,6)  
      4.  
      20 October  
      Lists and trees (H14)  •  Human-computer
    interaction  
         
      22 October  
      Data definitions and program design (H15,16) • Information systems
    and stakeholders  
      5.  
      27 October  
      Complex list processing (H17,18) • Social
    impact of computing  
         
      29 October  
      Extended example   
      6.  
      3 November  
      Algorithmic abstraction (H19, 20)   
         
      5 November  
      Higher-order functions (H21, 22, 24) • Basic processor
    operations (F9)  
      7.  
      10 November  
      Recursive algorithms (H25, 26, 27.1-27.3, 28.1) • Processor
    operations continued  
         
      12 November  
      Program performance (H29) • Machine-level and high-level
    languages  
      8.  
      17 November  
      Accumulators (H30-32) • Memory organization and data representation
      in memory (F8,11)   
         
      19 November  
      State and assignment (H34-37) • Operating system functions  
      9.  
      24 November  
      Extended example • Representing graphics. •
    Data compression • Secondary storage and peripherals  
         
      26 November  
       —   Thanksgiving holiday: no  class meeting —   
      10.  
      1 December  
      Social and legal issues   
         
      3 December  
       Looking back and looking forward (H Epilogue)   
         F.  
      8 December  
       Final exam,  Tuesday, 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.  
      *  Note that some chapters
are called Intermezzos.
 Intermezzo 2, for example, occurs between Chapter 12 and Chapter 14, so it's
the same thing as Chapter 13. 
      David G. Kay ,  kay@uci.edu      
Tuesday, December 1, 2009 1:15 PM
  
</body> 