 Clang C/C++ Download and Installation Instructions<body>

 
 Clang C/C++ Download and Installation 
 
  
  
 Download/Install the Clang Compilers 
  

 Clang  is the C/C++ complier that we will use in ICS-46.
   The version I installed (on 9/16/2016) is
    Apple version LLVM 6.0 (clang-600.0.57) (based on LLVM 3.5svn) .
  
After following the instruction here, you will download a version of
   CLion , an Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for using these
  compilers (or you can choose to use these compilers via a command-line).
In the process, you will also install Xcode's command line developer tools.
  
You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can
  refer to them while downloading and installing the Clang compilers.
Or, just keep this document in your browser.
You should read each step completely, before performing the action that it
  describes.
  
   Clang Compilers 
 
  Downloading and Installing 
  Open a Terminal window.
    Enter the command  clang --version  to see if the Clang compilers are
      already installed.
 

   If you want to install or update the Clang compilers, enter the
      command  command xcode-select --install 
    The following pop-up windout should appear on your screen
    (in this example I have placed it withing the Terminal window).
     
       

   Click the  Install  button.
     
    The following  License Agreement 
      pop-up window should appear on your screen.
      
       

   Click the  Agree  button.
     
    The following progress bar
      pop-up window should appear on your screen.
      
       
    When it is finished (in about a minute, as it says)
    The following
      pop-up window should appear on your screen.
      
       

   Click  Done .
 

   You can double-check the installation in the Terminal by entering the
      command  clang --version   to see if the (udpated)
      Clang compilers are now installed.
    Here is what this command generated when I entered it.
     
       
   
    

If this worked as it should, you are now ready to install the
   CLion IDE 
  
  </body> 