 Term Project INF 131<body>
                           
   
           IN4MATX
131 Term Project                                
   
  The   main aims of this
term project are to determine (a) whether users have troubles finding the  web page for making appointments with a librarian ,
and (b) whether they are satisfied with the confirmation message that
they receive once they submitted an appointment request. Other comments
from them on the usability of this page, or the Libraries website in
general, are also welcome.   
  The project
should be carried out by  pairs of  two  INF 131 students  (the
"experimenters")  .     You can sign up for a project team  here  (join an existing student   if you don't have a partner yet  , or open up a new team). The
outcome of the
project should be a written report that addresses the above aims. The term papers
are due by  March 18  in  this   dropbox .
The  estimated  work time is 2 hours for the experiment (10
minutes each subject, and one hour for setup), 2-3 hours for analyzing the videos, and about a day
for
writing
the report.    

  This project
will be conducted in collaboration with the UCI Libraries who
    will be very eager to read about your
findings.  
     
1. Choice of Loation, Time, Computer, Capture Software 
and Web Browser       
   Several days
before the experiment, determine where you will run the experiment and
what computer you will use.     
     Location: 
The
location
should
have
a
desk
and three
chairs as well as Internet connectivity that is good enough for web
browsing. It should be indoors or at least in the shade so that
subjects can easily view the screen. Subjects should also not
become distracted by others, nor
distract
others by their talking. The best strategy is to install yourselves at
some public space and to lure nearby students to your experiment,
rather than asking people to come to a specific location at a specific
time.   Computer:  The computer should have a screen of at least 13",
 be
powerful enough
to
run
screen &amp; audio recording software while the test user browses the web, and
record
audio
through
an
internal or external microphone.     
      Screen and Audio Recording ("Screencasting") Software:  Any such software is fine as long as
you are able to eventually create an integrated video/audio file that can be
played
in
Windows Media Player or Quicktime. HCI professionals typically use  Camtasia Studio  (for
Mac and PC)  or   Morae
Recorder  (for PC only), which both have a 30-day free trial period. In addition, many freeware and shareware choices exist, both for  Windows  (the Libraries like  CamStudio ) and  MacOS      .   
        
2. Preparation for the experiment       
  
   Install your
    recording software, restart the computer, launch your web
      browser and the
    screen/audio recorder, and record some of your own web browsing with
    oral commentary. Make sure that this software does not noticeably slow
    down your web browsing. If it does, reduce the color depth of the
    recording, down to grayscale if needed. If this is not enough, reduce the
      frame rate of the recording, down to four frames per second if needed.
      If this
      does
      not
      help either, use a faster computer.  
    PC users will most likely need an external microphone.   
  

  
    Download, print
    and read the entire  Instructions
    for the Experimenter     beforehand  . D o  not 
    share them with the test user   s.   

     
3. Setup on the Day of
      the Experiment: 
  
   Perform the study on  six test users   who must NOT be ICS or Engineering majors</strong> ,  following   the    Instructions
    for the Experimenter .           
4. Report and CD/DVD:   
   Draft the report very soon after performing
the experiment, so that you will better recall details that may be
important.  
    To
prepare the report, you should replay and analyze the videos. Take
notes while watching them.    
    Compare your notes with the notes that you
took during the experiment.  
    Draft a report that discusses  
     whether users have troubles finding the  web page for making appointments with a librarian   
      whether they are satisfied with the confirmation message that they receive once they submitted an appointment request,    
      anything else that users reported or that you observed, and  
      recommendations for design improvements that you may have.   
     If your subjects encounter problems with other
parts of the website (e.g., with its interface design and/or
information organization), then also describe those together with possible suggestions for
design improvements.  


    Write
a
report of around 8 pages about your user study (use the
default format of MS Word, which means single-spaced, 1" margin at the
top and bottom, 1.25" margin left and right, and 10pt extra space after
new paragraphs). About 1-2 pages total should be non-textual, including
e.g. figures and tables with some of your results, [annotated] screen
shots
that illustrate what you explain in
your text, or mockups that show your redesign.  
    The report
will be graded based on 
       the
clarity of your description of what the user did and said, and what problems
          s/he
encountered (feel free to quote users verbatim if it is important)   
        the
thoughtfulness of your analysis of why these problems occurred  
        the
thoughtfulness of your recommendations for improvement (less important)  
      
    Submit a single copy of your report and make sure it includes the names of both students but not their IDs. Since your
report will be forwarded to  the UCI Libraries you may also omit your
      names, but then send both names to the  TA . Note though that the UCI Libraries sometimes hire INF
      131 students.   
    Upload your
report to the class  dropbox ,
by  March 18 at 11:55pm  at the latest.  

    Burn a CD/DVD
or create a USB stick with your audio/video recording in a format that is compatible with
Windows Media Player or Quicktime. Write both names on
      it, and turn it in
at the beginning of the final exam on  March 22 at 8am.     
     
5. Some advice on the report:   
   Include some statistics on the demographics of the subjects.  
    Do not use subjects' real names, but rather codes like "Subject 1" or similar.  
    Organize your
report preferably by issue and not by subject. You can then "summarize"
certain findings by saying things like "4 out of 6 subjects were not
able to find..."   
    When describing user
      actions and associated problems/difficulties, state them clearly. For example: "The
      user clicked on the  &lt;insert name
      of link/button/whatever&gt; to go to the &lt;descriptive name&gt;" is
      better than "She went to the link on the left to go to the next page." You
  can't receive credit for what we have to guess you mean.  

    Your
  criticism and recommendations in your report should be based on HCI and web
      design guidelines presented in class (but you are welcome to also present
      a
  few personal opinions that are not grounded in HCI theory).  
    No, you don't
need an "IRB approval" for this user study (don't bother if you don't know
what this is).  
 </body> 