 ICS 131 Course Reference * Spring 2004<body>
  
 
 S PRING  2004 --  Information and Computer Science 
--  UC Irvine   
 
 ICS 131 Course Reference
   S OCIAL  A NALYSIS
OF  C OMPUTERIZATION   
  
  Instructor:    David G. Kay ,
406B Computer Science (   kay@uci.edu   )  
 
  Teaching assistants:  Keri Carpenter
(   keri@uci.edu   )
and Shubha Tandon (   tandons@uci.edu   ).  
 
  Course goals:   Technology doesn't
exist in a vacuum; it is part of the real world.  In this course, we look
at the wide variety of ways that computer technology affects the world around
us and vice versa.  You will be a much more effective designer and user
of technology when you can identify the broad consequences of the decisions
you make.  
 
 Studying the social impact of technology is
different from studying the technology itself.  The field is much broader
and the methods are less technically precise.  This class will sharpen your
critical reading skills and your ability to write clearly and persuasively
about technical issues and their consequences.  
 
 This course will also set the stage for ICS
132 and ICS 135, more advanced courses on the impact of computing in organizations
and society, as well as ICS 104 and ICS 105, which cover the more technical
aspects of human-computer interaction.  
 
  Prerequisite courses and concepts: 
 The prerequisites for ICS 131 are one course in computing, upper division
standing, and satisfactory completion of the lower division writing requirement.
 We do expect each student to be able to write clear, cogent, grammatical
English at the level expected in Writing 39C.  We also expect you to have
these basic computing skills:  Searching and browsing the Web, reading and
sending Email, downloading files, viewing and printing PDF (Adobe Acrobat)
documents, and creating or saving documents for Email and other purposes
in plain ASCII text form (not HTML or Word attachments).   
 
  Meeting place and times:   Lecture meets
Tuesdays and Thursdays from 9:30 to 10:50 in Computer Science 174, with
a discussion section on Mondays, Wednesdays or Fridays from 4:00 to 4:50
in ICF 101.  
 
  Office hours:   The TAs will have office
and consultation hours at times to be arranged.  I will be in or near my
office during these scheduled hours, during which course-related matters
will have first priority:  Tuesdays from 2:00 to 2:30 and Thursdays from
11:00 to 11:45.  Of course emergencies may come up, but I will try to give
advance notice of any change).  If I'm not immersed in something else,
I'll be glad to answer short questions whenever I'm in my office,
so feel free to drop by any time.  I'll also be happy to make appointments
for other times during the week.  The quickest and most effective way to
reach me is by electronic mail, as described below.  
 
  Questions and announcements:   You can
usually get a response to your course-related questions within a few hours
(perhaps a bit longer on the weekends) by sending electronic mail to the
ID    ics131@uci.edu   .
 This goes to the TA and the instructor, so whoever reads it first can respond.
 If you need to reach one of us individually, our individual addresses appear
above.  
 
 We may also send course announcements by Email
to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email regularly.
 Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
has for you (your UCInet ID).  If you prefer to read your Email on another
account, you should set your UCInet account to forward your Email to your
preferred account (you can do this on the web at   
 http://phwww.cwis.uci.edu/cgi-bin/phupdate   ).
 Don't let this slide; if you miss official announcements, your grade
could suffer.  If you are not yet enrolled in the course, you should check
the course Email periodically at the archive address given below; that's
how you'll know if you've been given permission to add.  
 
 This course has a home page at    http://e3.uci.edu/03y/36350   
(which you can reach more mnemonically from    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay   ,
the instructor's home page);    http://e3.uci.edu/04s/w3m3/36350 
  holds an archive of official course
Email; and a course Note Board for student-to-student discussions is available
when you log on to   eee.uci.edu  
.  We don't use a news group for this course.  
 
  Textbook and course materials:   
  A Gift of Fire:  Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues in Computing, 
second edition, by Sara Baase.  This will be our main text; note that it's
a new edition.  We listed this book as optional in the bookstore because
exam questions won't be drawn specifically from it, but especially if
you're not very familiar with social and legal issues, this book lays
everything out very clearly.  
 
  Visual &amp; Statistical Thinking: Displays
of Evidence for Decision Making,  by Edward R. Tufte.  This reprint of
Chapter 2 of Tufte's book,  Visual Explanations,  describes two
situations where the way information was presented had life-or-death consequences.  
 
 A collection of other readings will be required;
most will be available on line and others may be available at the Engineering
Copy Center.  This URL lists  all the readings 
and gives some hints and annotations:    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/131/s04readings.html   
.  
 
 An English dictionary.  Ideally you should
have a paperback dictionary as well as a large, unabridged dictionary. 
The former has faster access time but the latter has greater capacity, so
both are valuable.  
 
  Writing from A to Z  (currently in the
fourth edition) by Ebest, Alred, Brusaw, and Oliu.  This is the writing
reference for lower division writing at UCI.  Everyone needs a general writing
reference, and you should get this one if you don't have it or an equivalent.
 Earlier editions are fine.  
 
  Course structure:
   Notebook of reactions to the readings  (15% of the course grade)
  Two writing assignments,  (20% each, or 40% total)
  Class participation  (12.5%)
  One optional project  (see below)
  One midterm,  given in class on Thursday, May 6 (12.5%)
  One final exam,  on Thursday, June 17, from 8:00 to 10:00 a.m. (20%)  
 
 We will guarantee that overall scores over
90% will receive an A- or better, scores over 80% a B- or better, and scores
over 70% a C or better, but the actual grade cutoffs may be lower.  We're
required to say that in unusual circumstances, these criteria could change,
but we do not expect that to happen.  
 
  Add and drop policy:  More students
wish to add this class than we have the capacity to accommodate.  Those
wishing to add must fill out an enrollment request at the first class meeting;
Following departmental and university guidelines, we will establish priorities
for filling any seats that become available.    
 
 The absolute deadline for dropping the course
is the end of class on Thursday, April 15.  Because students who are enrolled
occupy a seat that other students want, ICS does not allow students to drop
after it's too late for another student to fill that seat.  We will
observe strictly the ICS policy of prohibiting drops after the second week
of the course.      
 
  Course notebook:   Every time you read
an assigned article or paper outside of the Baase text, you will write down
a brief summary of that article and your reaction to it; you will collect
these in electronic form and submit them periodically for checking.  For
more details, see the separate page titled " Course Notebook "
at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/131/notebook.html   .  
 
  Writing assignments:   We will have
two writing assignments that will ask you to explore some particular issue.
 The first will be about  voting systems ;
the second, about  campus file sharing policy .
These will go through multiple iterations with a goal of producing clear,
cogent analysis and grammatical English prose.  Because the analysis we
do in this course isn't familiar to most computer science students,
it's important that you read each assignment sheet very carefully. 
For important advice that can affect your grade, see also the separate page
at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/139w/requirements.html   .
 Read this  Writing Assignment Requirements 
page now and check it again every time you start a new assignment.  There
are also mechanical details for submitting assignments; each major assignment
is submitted in two ways:  on paper (including all the previously submitted,
marked versions) and electronically via Checkmate (see below).        
 
  Optional project:   To give you the
opportunity to explore an issue of particular interest to you, you may undertake
an optional open-ended course project.  You have broad latitude to choose
the topic and the form of your project, but you must get it approved by
us in advance (via Email to    ics131@uci.edu   ).  
 
 This project can take many forms:  It could
be a review of a book, an entry in the CPSR Essay Contest (see    www.cpsr.org   ),
a survey or a study.  Part (or all) of your project may involve making an
oral presentation in class, but since the time available for such presentations
is very limited, you should check with us soon if you're interested
in presenting something in class.  
 
 This project is entirely optional.  It doesn't
have a direct effect on your course grade:  There aren't any course
points associated with it; it won't make up for weak performance on
the assignments or exams.  On the other hand, if you do reasonably well
in the course, doing a good job on this project might give your course grade
a small boost.  In addition, a good job on this project lets me say something
unique and positive about you if you ask me to be a job reference or to
write a letter of recommendation; this means much more than a simple recitation
of how good a grade you got in my class.  Finally, the main reason to do
it is that it's fun to learn about something new and unusual, and it's
a gentle, manageable introduction to doing some independent research.  
 
 The project should be something that you're
interested in and want to explore further, so that you'll be motivated
to do it and its rewards to you will extend beyond any contribution to your
grade in ICS 131.  All projects must be completed and turned in by 9:30
a.m. on Thursday, June 10.  
 
  What you must do right now to get started
in ICS 131:
  -- If you do not have a UCInet ID (an account on the EA system for Email),
get one.  See    http://www.oac.uci.edu/computing/activate.html   .
 
-- If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
UCInet account, redirect your mail at    http://phwww.cwis.uci.edu/cgi-bin/phupdate 
   -- Be sure to read the web-based  notebook 
and  requirements 
documents listed above; missing the material listed there will lower your
grade.
 
-- Read the introduction to the reading list and start the first group of
readings so you can get started on the first writing assignment; an outline
is due next week.
 
-- If you will need off-campus access to the Web-based course readings,
follow the directions on the  Course Readings page 
to set up and test out your access via VPN.
 
-- On the Web, go to   checkmate.ics.uci.edu  ,
log in with your UCInet ID, choose "Course Listing" for "Spring
2004," click "Go" next to ICS 131, and then click "List
me for this course."  You'll submit some of your work electronically;
this step is necessary to set that up.
 
-- Give a snapshot of yourself (with your name written on the back) to your
TA.  This will help us learn your names quickly.  (This is not just for
fun--it's a course requirement.)  Also turn in your signed Questionnaire
to your TA in discussion section.
 
--If you aren't yet officially enrolled in the course, check the course
Email archive regularly (see above) so you can keep up with official announcements
(which may include announcements about enrollment).  
 
  Good advice and helpful hints:   
 
 Check your electronic mail regularly; this
is an official channel for course announcements.  
 
 Attendance in class is essential; concepts
and issues that come up in class will find their way onto the exams and
class participation in various forms is worth one-eighth of the course grade.  
 
 Always keep your own copy of each assignment,
both electronically and on paper; if an assignment should get lost in the
shuffle (or if file server should crash, which has happened in the past),
we'll expect you to be able to supply a replacement easily.  
 
 If you find yourself having trouble or getting
behind, speak with a TA or the instructor.  But  never  take the shortcut
of copying someone else's work and turning it in; the consequences can
be far worse than just a low score on one assignment.  The ICS department
takes academic honesty very seriously; for a more complete discussion, see
the ICS departmental web page covering academic honesty issues:  
 http://www.ics.uci.edu/~ucounsel/continuing_students/cheat.html   .  
 
  Approximate course outline:  
        
   Week     
 
  Date    
 
  Topic (and corresponding
 chapter(s) in the Baase text)    
 
  Due dates   
         
 1.  
 
 6 April  
 
 Introduction to the course (Ch. 1)  
 
  
   
  
 
 8 April  
 
 Identifying and analyzing social issues   
 
  
   
 2.  
 
 13 April  
 
 Introduction to the American legal system  
 
 Voting Outline   
   
  
 
 15 April  
 
 Privacy (Ch. 2)  
 
  
   
 3.  
 
 20 April  
 
 More on privacy  
 
 Notebook Inst. 1   
   
  
 
 22 April  
 
 Safety and reliability (Ch. 4)  
 
  
   
 4.  
 
 27 April  
 
 Intellectual property law (Ch. 6)  
 
  
   
  
 
 29 April  
 
 More on intellectual property law  
 
 Voting Draft   
   
 5.  
 
  4 May  
 
 Constitutional issues (Ch. 5)  
 
 Notebook Inst. 2   
   
  
 
 6 May  
 
  Midterm exam   
 
  
   
 6.  
 
 11 May  
 
 Computerization and work (Ch. 8)  
 
 Voting Final   
   
  
 
 13 May  
 
 Computers and organizations  
 
  
   
 7.  
 
 18 May  
 
 Computerization and social change (Ch.9)  
 
 Wr.Asst.2  
  Outline   
   
  
 
 20 May  
 
 More on social change  
 
  
   
 8.  
 
 25 May  
 
 Ethics and professional responsibility (Ch.
10)  
 
 Notebook Inst. 3   
   
  
 
 27 May  
 
 Social aspects of technical questions  
 
 Wr.Asst.2  Draft   
   
 9.  
 
 1 June  
 
 Social aspects of technical questions  
 
  
   
  
 
 3 June  
 
 Human-computer interaction  
 
  
   
 10.  
 
 8 June  
 
 Information architecture  
 
 Notebook Inst. 4   
   
  
 
 10 June  
 
 Epilogue and review  
 
 Wr.Asst.2  Final   
   
 F.  
 
 17 June  
 
  Final exam,  Thursday, 8:00-10:00  
 
  
   </body> 