 Theory Seminar, 16 Feb 2011<body>
   
  CS 269S, Winter 2011: Theory Seminar  
Bren Hall, Room 3011, 3:00pm

 
16 Feb 2011: 
 Optimal Authentication of Operations on Dynamic Sets 
 Roberto Tamassia, Brown University 

 We study the problem of authenticating outsourced set operations
performed by an untrusted server over a dynamic collection of sets that
are owned by a trusted source. We present efficient methods for
authenticating fundamental set operations, such as  union  and
 intersection  so that the client can verify the correctness of the
received answer. Based on a novel extension of the security properties
of  bilinear-map accumulators , our authentication scheme is the
first to achieve  optimality  in several critical performance
measures: 
   The verification overhead at the client is optimal, 
that is, the client can verify an answer in time proportional to the
size of the query parameters and answer. 
  The update overhead
at the source is constant.  
  The bandwidth consumption is optimal,  namely constant between
the source and the server and operation-sensitive between the client and
the server (i.e., proportional only to the size of the query parameters
and the answer). 
  The storage usage is optimal,  namely constant at the
client and linear at the source and the server. 
  Updates and queries are also efficient at the server. In contrast,
existing schemes entail high bandwidth and verification costs or high
storage usage since they recompute the query over authentic data or
precompute answers to all possible queries. 

 We also show applications of our techniques to the authentication of
 keyword searches  on outsourced document collections (e.g.,
inverted-index queries) and of queries in outsourced  databases 
(e.g., equi-join queries). Since set intersection is heavily used in
these applications, we obtain new authentication schemes that compare
favorably to existing approaches. 

 ( Joint work  with
Charalampos Papamanthou and Nikos Triandopoulos.)

 </body> 