 computer science degree @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Graduate  &gt;  Degrees  


     
 Computer Science Degree 

 
 

 The  UCI General Catalogue  
is the official guide to all degree and graduation requirements; the information 
below is intended for general planning purposes only. For previous calendar years, please click  here . 
  
    Computer Science (CS) (M.S. and Ph.D.)</strong>  

 The Computer Science degree is a broad and flexible program which offers 
students opportunities for graduate study in the full spectrum of intellectual 
activity in computer science.  
    CURRENT DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</strong>  
  Additional Information</strong>
 
 The set of core and elective courses chosen by a student must be 
approved by the student's research advisor before advancement to candidacy. 
Faculty associated with each research area will provide suggested curricula for 
that area to guide students in their selection of courses. These curricula will 
also help Ph.D. students to prepare for their candidacy examination (see below) 
which must be taken in a specific research area. 
</strong>
   </strong> 
  Similarly, students may not take and count undergraduate courses in areas where they have already moved into graduate-level coursework. (The purpose of these undergraduate elective options are to help students to remedy undergraduate background deficiencies).</strong> 
 Ph.D. Candidacy Exam</strong>
 The objective of the candidacy exam is to demonstrate in-depth knowledge of 
an area of computer science and readiness to carry out independent research at 
the doctoral level in that area. The student must complete all course 
requirements and the research project prior to advancing to candidacy.  
 All requirements for candidacy including the candidacy exam must be completed 
by the end of the third year (or, for students with a previous MS in computer science or a related field, by the end of the second year). If the student does not pass on the first trial, 
they will be allowed until the end of the first quarter of the next year to 
advance to candidacy.  
 The candidacy committee will consist of five faculty members, the majority of 
whom must be members of the student’s program, to administer the exam according 
to UCI Senate Policy. Please see the ICS Graduate Office for policies 
regarding the advancement committee membership.  
 The student takes an oral exam, administered by the five-member committee, 
during which s/he is tested on knowledge relevant to the chosen area of 
specialization. Each area is defined by a set of topics and reading list, which 
are available in the documents below:  
   Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning Syllabus (PDF)   
  Computer 
Architecture and Embedded Systems Syllabus (PDF)  
  Computer 
Graphics and Visualization Syllabus (PDF)  
  Computational 
Neuroscience (PDF)   
  Computer 
Networks Syllabus (PDF)  
  Cryptograph and 
Computer Security Syllabus (PDF)  
  Data Management 
(PDF)  
  Informatics in Biology and 
Medicine (PDF)   
  Parallel and 
Distributed Systems Syllabus (PDF)  
  Scientific 
Computing Syllabus (PDF)  
  Systems Software 
Syllabus (PDF)   
  Theory Syllabus 
(PDF)  
 
The field of computer science is concerned with the design, analysis and 
implementation of computer systems as well as the use of computation as it is 
applied to virtually every field of study and use in the everyday world.
 Computer systems can range in scope from tiny embedded systems to the 
internet as a whole. Research in computer science involves mathematical 
analysis, empirical experimentation and the implementation of proto-type 
systems.  
 Core research areas include artificial intelligence and machine learning, 
bio-informatics, computer architecture, embedded systems, graphics and visual 
computing, databases and information management, multimedia, networked and 
distributed systems, programming languages and compilers, security and 
cryptography, design and analysis of algorithms, scientific computing, and 
ubiquitous computing. 


 
 
 
  More Graduate » 
   Contact  
  Apply for admission  
  Degrees  
  Tuition and costs  
  Courses  
  Frequently asked questions  
  Graduate Student Handbook  
  Research areas  
  Policies and forms  
 
  Contact a counselor  
  Graduate housing  
  Computing support  
  Visit the Bren School  
  Notes from CS Vice Chair » 
   MS planning advice  
  MS thesis guidance  
  
   Quick Links   
                        
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 