 sam archer spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Sam Archer spotlight 

 
 

  Sweet Music</strong>
 
 
   Sam Archer
 
 
 Sam Archer is accustomed to creating fluid rhythms as a member of the UCI Pep Band, a trait he has carried over to the class room.  
 “Being around computers as much as I was, I got to be fairly good at solving problems with them,” Archer said. “I really enjoyed working with computers, and fixing them for friends and family members turned me on to computer science as a career.” 
 Despite its unfamiliar name and fledgling beginnings, the Mission Viejo native was excited about being part of the inaugural Informatics class.  
 “The major sounded much more along the lines of what I would enjoy doing; more design and critical thinking, slightly less programming, and this was a large part of my motivation for going into the major,” Archer said. “Secondly, Informatics is still a relatively new field, and to have received an education and degree in it will open a lot of doors for careers in the future.” 
 The Informatics major covers the design, implementation, use and impact of information technology.  
 Compared to traditional computer science, which primarily focuses on the internal features of computer systems, Informatics is also concerned with computer systems and their surrounding context -- the people and organizations that use them and the problems they need to solve. 
 It was the major’s focus on both people and technology that provided the strongest draw for Archer.  
 
 Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.
 
 “I enjoy coding and it is rewarding to see a piece of software you've built come to life, but I wanted to spend my life doing something slightly more tangible and creative,” Archer said. “The Informatics major has more focus on fulfilling customers needs, and high-level design, which as a career I think I will enjoy.” 
  SKILLS TO PAY THE BILLS </strong> 
 With graduation a year away Archer is focusing on life after college, one he hopes will entail a job with responsibilities that lie somewhere between customers and developers solving problems on a design level. 
 Archer credits his Informatics classes for providing him the skills he will need to achieve his career goals.  
 “I had no practical programming experience prior to starting the Informatics program,” Archer said. “The program is definitely set up to teach anyone without programming experience how to program. There's very little hand-holding though, so you'll need to be willing to learn a little bit on your own.” 
 Archer also credits the Informatics major with teaching him how to learn, a trait which will be extremely beneficial in the technology field where changes come so quickly that the specific technology students learn will probably be obsolete by the time they graduate.  
 For Archer, changing to meet the needs of an ever changing technology field will be as easy as moving his fingers to a different valve on his Tuba. 
  - Eric Kowalik  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 