 lecturer positions @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Employment  


     
 Lecturer Positions 

 
 

      Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences   Department of Computer Science   Full-Time Lecturer Position </strong>
 The Department of Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine, invites applications for full-time lecturer position starting with the 2016-2017 academic year. The academic year begins in late September and ends mid-June. The pay period for full-time lecturer appointments is from July 1 through June 30 (a nine-month service period paid over twelve months.) 
 Current teaching responsibilities include teaching six - seven (quarter/trimester) courses per year, for majors and non-majors, and curriculum development. Additional administrative duties may be assigned by the Chair of the Department. 
 Applicants should hold a graduate degree in Computer Science or in a related field (or equivalent education/experience) plus a strong interest and a proven record of excellence in teaching undergraduate CS courses at the university level. Salary will be commensurate with education and experience. 
 Successful applicants will find the Computer Science Department to be a stimulating and diverse environment conducive to professional growth in teaching. Lecturers are considered an essential part of the faculty and participate in departmental decisions pertaining to education. UC Irvine is located 4 miles from the Pacific Ocean and 45 miles south of Los Angeles. The area offers a very pleasant year-round climate, numerous recreational and cultural opportunities, and one of the highest-ranked public school systems in the nation. For more information about the CS Department, visit www.cs.uci.edu/. 
 Review of applications will begin on August 1, 2016 and will continue until the position is filled. Each application should contain: a cover letter, curriculum vitae, a description of teaching interests, all available teaching evaluations and 3-5 letters of reference. In addition, a statement of applicant's contributions to diversity is required – statement addressing how your past and/or potential contributions to diversity will advance  UCI's Commitment to Inclusive Excellence . 
 All materials must be uploaded at:  https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF03537  
  The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy.  
       Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences   Department of Computer Science   Part-Time Lecturer Position </strong> 
 The Department of Computer Science has the occasional need for part-time lecturers in the various areas of Computer Science. 
 Each application should contain: a cover letter, curriculum vitae, a description of teaching interests, all available teaching evaluations and 2-3 letters of reference. In addition, a statement of applicant's contributions to diversity is required –statement addressing how your past and/or potential contributions to diversity will advance UCI's Commitment to Inclusive Excellence. 
 Salaries are commensurate with technical and teaching experience and/or level of education. Appointments may be made at varying percentages of time. 
 All application materials must be uploaded at:  https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF03543  
 Applications for Fall Quarter positions should be received on or before August 31, 2016.   Applications for Winter Quarter positions should be received on or before December 1, 2016.   Applications for Spring Quarter positions should be received on or before March 1, 2017. 
  The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy.  
     
   Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences   Department of Statistics   Full-Time Lecturer Position </strong> 
 The Department of Statistics at the University of California, Irvine, invites applications for a full-time lecturer position for the 2016-2017 academic year, with the possibility of an extension to subsequent years. The academic year begins in late September and ends in mid-June. The pay period for a full-time lecturer appointment is from July 1 through June 30 (a nine-month service period paid over twelve months). 
 The primary responsibility for this position is to teach nine (quarter/trimester) courses per year (three per quarter) in the Department of Statistics. Additional administrative or advising duties may be assigned by the Chair of the Department, with compensatory reduction in teaching duties. 
 Applicants should hold a graduate degree in Statistics or a closely related field (Ph.D. preferred), and have a strong interest, and a proven record of excellence, in teaching undergraduate statistics courses at the university level. Salary will be commensurate with degree and experience. 
 The Department of Statistics offers MS and PhD degrees in Statistics, an undergraduate minor in Statistics, and a BS degree in Data Science. UC Irvine is located 4 miles from the Pacific Ocean and 45 miles south of Los Angeles. The area offers a very pleasant year-round climate, numerous recreational and cultural opportunities, and one of the highest-ranked public school systems in the nation. For more information about the department, visit  http://www.stat.uci.edu/ . 
 Completed applications containing a cover letter, curriculum vita, description of teaching experience, and teaching evaluations (if available), should be uploaded electronically. In addition, a separate statement that addresses past and/or potential contributions to diversity, equity and inclusion should be included in the application materials. Apply online at  https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF03360 . 
 Review of applications will begin on April 18, 2016 and will continue until the position is filled. 
  The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy.     
     
   Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences   Department of Statistics   Part-Time Lecturer Position </strong> 
 The Department of Statistics has the occasional need for part-time lecturers in the various areas of Statistics. 
 Desirable qualifications include a Ph.D. or M.S in Statistics, or equivalent education or experience in a related field plus successful university-level teaching experience. 
 Salaries are commensurate with technical and teaching experience and/or level of education. Appointments may be made at varying percentages of time. Application information may be found at  recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF02853  
   The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy.   
    


 
 
 
  More employment » 
   Endowed Bren Chairs  
  Faculty positions  
  Lecturer positions  
  Research positions  
  Student/alumni job board  
  Staff positions  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 