 Overview<body>    

  
 
  
    

       

 

                             
 

      
   
     
  The 
 EXPRESSION  project aims to achieve exploration of  Systems-On-Chip  (SOCs) with 
programmable processor cores and novel memory hierarchies. Effective exploration 
of such SOCs is possible by considering the interaction between the processor 
architecture, the compiler and the target application. In this project we use  
EXPRESSION , an Architecture Description Language (ADL), to specify the 
processor-memory architecture. Further, we automatically generate  EXPRESS , 
a highly optimizing, Instruction-Level-Parallelizing (ILP) compiler, and  
SIMPRESS , a cycle-accurate, structural simulator from EXPRESSION. 
EXPRESSION, EXPRESS and SIMPRESS are integrated under a visual environment,  
V-SAT  ( V isual  S pecification and  A nalysis  T ool), 
to aid rapid  Design Space Exploration  (DSE).  
   
   EXPRESSION  was designed 
with the dual goal of allowing processor description for fast DSE and for 
automatic generation of detailed/accurate simulation/compilation tools. The 
novel features of  EXPRESSION  include:  
            
  Integration of the 
Instruction-Set and Structure to avoid redundancy in specification,   
               
  Automatic generation of resource 
constraints (as reservation tables), and   
               
  Constructs for explicitly 
specifying novel and traditional memories   
           
   EXPRESS  was developed 
with the goal of providing a retargetable compiler platform for 
Embedded-System/System-on-Chip development. The  EXPRESS  retargetable 
compiler takes in C programs and produces a highly optimized (and parallel) 
target specific code using state-of-art Instruction-Level Parallelism (ILP) 
techniques. The compiler features an extensive set of integrated transformations 
to perform the traditional compiler tasks of code selection, instruction 
scheduling and register allocation and memory-aware optimizations.   SIMPRESS  is a retargetable, cycle-accurate, structural simulator that can 
be used to evaluate the architecture, the application and the effectiveness of 
the compiler transformations. It features an extensive set of statistic 
collector agents that are used to gather information such as resource usage, 
hazard count, inner-loop execution time, etc.   V-SAT  provides a visual environment to graphically specify the 
architecture and perform Architectural DSE in an intuitive manner. The  
EXPRESSION  description of the processor can be automatically generated from 
the  V-SAT  specification.  
   EXPRESSION  is an ADL supporting architectural design space exploration (DSE) 
for embedded Systems-on-Chip (SOC) and automatic generation of a retargetable 
compiler/simulator toolkit.    
   
      
     
   

        

     
  
 Home  | Overview |  System Requirements  |  Documentation  |  Download  |  News  |  People  |  Contact   
 Copyright University of California, Irvine, 2003. 
For problems or questions regarding this web contact  
 Sudeep Pasricha  . 
Last updated: 05/26/03. 
  
 

   </body> 