 Fact Sheet<body>

 
 Fact Sheet 
 
  ICS-31: Introduction to Programming   
  
   Staff Information 
     Instructor    Richard Pattis  
    Email     pattis@ics.uci.edu   
    AIM Handle    richardepattis  
    Office Location &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp   DBH 4062 (Bren Hall) 
    Office Phone      (949) 824-2704 
    Office Hours     
     Mon   
    12:00noon - 1:00pm and 3:00pm - 4:00pm 
    
     Tues   
    12:00noon - 2:00pm 
    
     Wed   
    12:00noon - 1:00pm (except when announced) and 3:00pm - 4:00pm 
    
     Thr   
    None 
     
     Fri   
    12:00noon - 1:00pm 



   
     
     
     
     

     Rich Pattis
          
        pattis@ics.uci.edu
          
        Instructor  

      Bailey Kong
          
        bhkong@uci.edu
          
        TA Labs: 1 and 2 (Lab 5 on Tuesday)  

      Aditi Sharma
          
        sharmaa3@uci.edu
          
        TA Labs: 3 and 4 (Lab 5 on Thursday)  

      Yen Thi Hao Hoang
          
        ythoang@uci.edu
          
        Reader: All Labs  

        
     
     
     
     
     Emily Nguyen 
        Lab 1 Tutor  

      Aaron Hong 
        Lab 2 Tutor  

      Zong Ma 
        Lab 3 Tutor  

      Huy Pham 
        Lab 4 Tutor  

      David Brown 
        Lab 5 Tutor  

        
     
     
     
     
     Jessica Zeng 
        Lab 1 Tutor  

      Andrew Yang 
        Lab 2 Tutor  

      TBA 
        Lab 3 Tutor  

      TBA 
        Lab 4 Tutor  

      Joseph, Lee 
        Lab 5 Tutor  



     Course Help 

 Instructor Office Hours : 
Please feel free to drop by any time during my office hours, without an
  appointment (these are  open  office hours).
If you cannot make any of these times and want to schedule an appointment at
  some other time, e-mail me to arrange one (or, if the question is small,
  just send  me e-mail asking it).
I answer e-mail periodically throughout the day (from about 6:30am to 10:00pm).
If you have aquestion that would be of interest to the entire class, please
 post it on the appropriate MessageBoard Forum (see below).
 

 Instructor Online Hours : 
I will hold online evening office hours every weekday evening before our class
   meets (Monday-Thursday, 9:00pm to 10:00pm) where I am reachable by by AIM
   handle  richardepattis .
  

 MessageBoard Forums : 
I have created a Message Board for this class and started five 
 
    MessageBoard Forums .
I prefer students ask questions on these Forums so that everyone (staff and
  students) can see the questions and everyone can participate in answering
  the qusetions (and exploring the answers).
Before posting on a topic, check whether another student has already posted on
  that topic.
    Python and Eclipse :
Use this forum to ask/answer/discuss questions about the Python Programming
  Language, the Eclipse Integrated Development Environment, or how to use them
  together.
 
    Lecture Material :
Use this forum to ask/answer/discuss questions about the readings and the
  materials discussed in class.
 
    Quizzes and Exams :
Use this forum forum to ask/answer/discuss questions about the quizzes and
  exams (written and programming).
 Don't post solutions or any code , but feel free to ask
  about/discuss all other aspects of the quizzes and exams (including asking
  for clarification, input/output examples, etc: be specific).
 
    Programming Assignments :
Use this forum to ask/answer/discuss questions about the programming 
  assignments: specification, relevant Python, etc.
Again,  Don't post solutions or any code , but feel free to ask
  about/discuss all other aspects of the programming assignments (including
  asking for clarification, input/output examples, etc: be specific).
 
    Find Programming Partners :
Find a programming partner. Relevant information is your Lab (partners should
  at least have labs meeting at the same time), approximate skill level (best 
  to match with someone your own level), work habits (e.g., prefer to work days,
  evenings, weekends; do/don't want to work early to get extra for early
  submissions), preferred location to work (if your dorm/home, say where that
  is), ...
  
Feel free to ask questions and answer other students' questions on these
  forums (subject to the prohibition of posting code for
   Quizzes and Exams  and   Programming Assignments ).
I will also read them daily.
When you post a question, choose the  title  line carefully.
 
In past quarters, the message board/forum mechanism have seen a good amount of
  traffic: course material has been clarified, questions have been asked and
  answered, and many interesting discussions have ensued.
But the efficacy of these discussions depends on  your  participation.
If the need for other forums arise, I will create them: feel free to suggest
  forums to me.

  
 Course Email :
The instructor, staff, and all students registered for the course can send
  email to everyone else by emailing the address
   ics31-S14@classes.uci.edu .
All messages sent via this email address will be archived on the
   
  Email Archive 
As the instructor, I will frequently use this mechanism to broadcast timely
  information to all the students.
Students should use this email address more selectively: mostly you should be
  using the forums mentioned above to ask questions, so all students can see
  your questions/comments and participate in the discussion.
One reasonable student use of this email list is to send email if Checkmate
  (the program submission system) appears to be down; by sending email I will
  learn about the problem and everyone will know I know.
In such a case (when I bring Checkmate back up), I'll send a follow-up email
  message to everyone.
  

Finally, remember to read the
   Announcements 
  link daily, on the course web; I tend to post long-lived information here,
  rather than via the forums or email.
  
     Lecture/Section Meeting Places and Times 
      Lecture/Lab(s)  
 Classroom 
 Days 
 Start 
 Stop 
      Lecture  
 SSH 100 
 MWF 
 11:00 am 
 11:50 am 



    Lab 1  
 ICS 183 
 TuTh 
  8:00 am 
  9:50 am 

    Lab 2  
 ICS 183 
 TuTh 
 10:00 am 
 11:50 am 

    Lab 3  
 ICS 189 
 TuTh 
  8:00 am 
  9:50 am 

    Lab 4  
 ICS 189 
 TuTh 
 10:00 am 
 11:50 am 

    Lab 5  
 ICS 192 
 TuTh 
 12:00 noon 
  1:50 pm 

    

It is well known (but often underappreciated) fact that consistent attendence
  of lectures/lab is strongly correlated with good course performance;
  therefore, I expect all my students to attend lecures and labs regularly.
Plan on arriving punctually -I may make important announcements at the start of
  a class- paying attention, and treating your classmates with respect.
  
If you do miss a class, your first point of contact should be other students
  who attended the class to determine what you missed and how you can catch up
  (see the course web too).
One of the most "bewildering" questions faculty hear is,
  "I missed class yesterday; did you say or do anything important?"
  

    Bottom Line
As a lecturer at UCI, my primary responsiblity is teaching; my primary
  activities are preparing course materials, teaching in class, interacting
  with students (in class, during [online] office hours, on MessageBoard
  Forums) and grading.
   
     </body> 