 CS 274A | Notes/Reading 
  
   
 
  




 
    CS 274A: Background Notes and Reading, Winter 2017    

 
  Notes (Note Sets 1 to 3 are particularly relevant for the 1st and 2nd week) 
   Notation Guide   
  Note Set 1: Review of Probability (PDF)  
  Note Set 2: Multivariate Probability Models (PDF)  
  Note Set 3: Models, Parameters, and Likelihood (PDF)  
  Note Set 4: Mixture Models and the EM Algorithm (PDF)  
  Note Set 5: Hidden Markov Models (PDF)   
  
  Textbooks (recommended for background reading but not required) 
    Deep Learning , by Goodfellow, Bengio, and Courville, Bengio, MIT Press, 2016.
Even though this text is mostly about deep learning (Sections II and III, beyond the scope of our class),
 Section I is about probabilistic
learning in general and provides a lot of very useful background material for this class. 
 
  
 Machine Learning: A Probabilistic Perspective , 
by Kevin Murphy, MIT Press, 2012. The current standard reference text for probabilistic machine learning. Covers
far more than we will cover in this 10-week class.
If you plan to use machine learning in your research after this class you may want to go ahead buy
a copy of this text - you will find it to be a very useful reference in your research.
 
  Bayesian Reasoning and Machine Learning , 
by David Barber, Cambridge University Press. Another useful reference text on probabilistic learning (the PDF version is free).
   Model-based machine learning , Chris Bishop, 
 Phil Trans R. Soc. A , 2012. 
A well-written overview article that reviews some of the key ideas behind probabilistic model-based learning 

    General Background/Review Material on Probability  :  
   Topics: random variables, conditional and joint 
probabilities, Bayes rule, law of total probability, chain rule 
and factorization. Frequentist and Bayesian views of probability. Sets of random variables, the 
multivariate Gaussian model. Conditional independence and graphical 
models.  
  Note Sets 1 and 2 above  
  Goodfellow et al text:  Chapter 3, Probability and
Information Theory   (well worth reading before doing Homework 1)
    Barber text: Chapter 1.1, 1.2 (basic probability), Chapter 2 (graphs), Chapter 3.1 to 3.3 (directed
graphical models, referred to here as 'belief networks'), sections 8.1 to 8.4 (univariate and
multivariate distributions)  
  Murphy text:
Chapter 1 (introduction), Chapter 2.1 through 2.5  (probability and distributions), Chapter
10.1 to 10.3 (graphical models)  
  See also class notes from Kevin
Murphy on   on directed graphical
models ,   Markov models , and   multivariate Gaussians    
  Excellent 15 minute  video on multivariate
Gaussian distributions  from our own Alex Ihler 
  Chapter from Chris Bishop's book on  graphical models  
    Learning from Data using Maximum Likelihood       Topics: Concepts of models and
parameters. Definition of the likelihood function and the principle of maximum likelihood
parameter estimation. Using maximum likelihood methods to learn the parameters of Gaussian models, binomial,
multivariate and other parametric models. 
  Note Set 3 above  
  Barber text: pages 174-177  
   Tutorial  paper on maximum likelihood estimation   
    Bayesian Learning       Topics: General principles of Bayesian estimation: prior densities, posterior densities, MAP, 
fully Bayesian approaches. Beta/binomial and Gaussian examples. Predictive densities, model selection, model averaging . 
  Note Sets 1 and 2 above  
  Notes on   analysis of binomial and multinomial models  from Kevin Murphy  
  Barber text: pages 191-194 (in Chapter 9, Learning as Inference), Pages 177-179 in Chapter 8, and Chapter 12 on Bayesian Model Selection  
  Murphy text: Chapter 3.1 to 3.4 and Chapter 5.1, 5.2, 5.3  
  An introductory chapter on the  
principles of Bayesian inference   by the late David Mackay, from
his excellent book  
Information Theory, Inference, and Learning Algorithms . Also a link to a video of David
lecturing on  An Introduction to Bayesian
Inference .  
    Optimization Methods for Machine Learning       Geoff Hinton's class notes on 
 optimization for machine learning   (a good introduction to the basic concepts) 
  Chapter on   Numerical Optimization  from
the Goodfellow et al. text.
   Simple  tutorial on gradient descent , with examples in R code. 
  Tutorial paper from Leon Bottou on 
 stochastic gradient methods . 
  Notes on   conjugate gradient descent , from Jonathan
Shewchuk (with good insights into geometric aspects of optimization in general)  
  Slides from Stephen Wright optimization and machine learning:
 IPAM 2012 slides 
and  NIPS 2010
slides  (see also
 video ).  
    Regression Models       Topics: Linear models. Normal equations. Systematic and stochastic components. 
Parameter estimation methods for regression. Maximum likelihood and Bayesian
interpretations.  
   Andrew Ng's notes on supervised learning  (good
introduction to the basic concepts)  
 Barber text: Chapter 17.1 to 17.3 on linear models 
 Murphy text: Chapter 7.1, 7.2, 7.3 and 7.6 
   
General discussion of classification and regression  from Goodfellow et al. text  
  Nice  blog post
on key ideas associated with the bias-variance trade-off  
   Slides from CMU on
bias-variance  
 pages 1 to 33 of  a classic paper
on the bias/variance tradeoff   
   Mike Tipping's review paper on Bayesian
regression  
    Probabilistic Classification       Topics: Bayes rule, classification boundaries, discriminant functions, Optimal decisions, 
Bayes error rate, Gaussian classifiers. Likelihood-based approaches and properties of 
objective functions. Logistic regression and neural network models.   
  Barber text: pages 229-234 (in Chapter 10 on Naive Bayes), 
pages 353-358 on logistic regression (in Chapter 17 on Linear Models)  
  Murphy text: pages 101-107 on Gaussian classifiers in Chapter 4, Chapter 8.1. 8.2, 8.3   
   Notes on logistic regression  
from Charles Elkan  
  Paper on  
Logistic regression for high-dimensional text data   
    The EM Algorithm, Mixture Models, and Probabilistic Clustering       Topics: Mixtures of Gaussians and the associated EM algorithm.  
K-means clustering. Mixtures of conditional indepedence models.  
Applications to text data. Underlying theory of the EM algorithm.  
  Note Set 4 above (EM for Gaussian mixture models)  
  General derivation of the EM Algorithm: pages 404-406 in Barber, pages 363-369 in Murphy  
  Barber text: pages 403-416  
  Murphy text: pages 337-356 (Chapter 11)  
  Jeff Bilmes 
 tutorial notes on EM   
  Frank Dellaert's  tutorial notes on EM   
  Liang and Klein's  Online EM
with applications to text   
  Fraley and Raftery  paper on model-based clustering    
    State-Space and Time-Series Models       Topics: discrete and continuous latent-state space models. Hidden Markov models, 
Kalman filters. Basic principles of smoothing and filtering. Parameter estimation methods using EM.   
  Barber text: pages 451-471 (in Chapter 23 on Dynamical Models)  
  Murphy text: Chapter 17.1 to 17.5  
  Sequential modeling using  
recurrent neural networks   from the Goodfellow et al. text 
    Sampling Methods       Topics: Importance sampling, Gibbs sampling, and related ideas  
   Tutorial chapter
on sampling and Monte Carlo methods  from the Goodfellow et al. text 
  Barber text: pages 543-553 (in Chapter 27 on Sampling)   
  </body> 