 Dr. Rina Dechter @ UCI<body>

   
      
       
        CS-295 Reasoning and
Modeling with
Graphical Models, Winter 2011   
       
         
                      
        
        
        Classroom: DBH 1431  
         Day: Friday  
         Time: 1:00 - 3:20p  
         Instructor: Rina Dechter -  dechter@ics.uci.edu   
           
       The seminar will focus on recent advances in graphical models
reasoning and knowledge representation, as well as on exploring some
application areas. The main subject of seminar will be presenting paper from the recent NIPS conference and workshops 

Each student will be involved in presenting papers/chapters and will be
encouraged to focus on a project of interest. Students will write a
final report for their research project.     Recommended papers:  
           Vibhav Gogate, William Webb, Pedro Domingos. Learning Efficient Markov Networks.  
			    Abhay Jha, Vibhav Gogate, Alexandra Meliou, Dan Suciu. Lifted Inference Seen from the Other Side : The Tractable Features.  
			
			    Daniel Lowd, University of Oregon; Pedro Domingos. Approximate Inference by Compilation to Arithmetic Circuits. University of Washington.  
			    Martin Zinkevich, Markus Weimer, Alex Smola, and Lihong Li. Parallelized Stochastic gradient descent. Yahoo Research. 
			    Akshat Kumar &amp; Shlomo Zilberstein. MAP Estimation for graphical Models by Likelihood Maximization. UMass 
			
			    Gal Elidan.  Copula bayesian Networks. Hebrew University 
			    Jim C Huang, Nebojsa Jojic and Chris Meek.  Exact inference and learning for cumulative distribution functionson loopy graphs. Microsoft Research 
			    Merixtell Vinyals, Jesus Cerquides and Juan Antonio Rodriguez-Aguilar,IIIA-CSIC; Alessandro Farinelli, University of Verona. Worst-case bounds on the quality of max-product fixed-points.  
			    M. Kumar, B. Packer, D. Koller. Self-Paced Learning for Latent Variable Models.  
			    S. Jakkam Reddi, S. Sarawagi, S. Vishwanathan. MAP estimation in Binary MRFs via Bipartite Multi-cuts. 
			    Corinna Cortes, Yishay Mansour, Mehryar Mohri. Learning Bounds for Importance Weighting. 
			    A. Bouchard-Cote, M. Jordan. Variational Inference over Combinatorial Spaces.  
			    Kamalika Chaudhuri, Sanjoy Dasgupta. Rates of convergence for the cluster tree. 
	 
	     Workshops:  
           Workshop on monte carlo methods.  
			    Workshop on learning on cores, clusters and clouds.  
	    Schedule  
       
         
            Week
            
         Date   
         Topic   
         Readings   
        Week 1  
        1/7  
       
         
          
       Week 2  
        1/14  
       
        Andrew Gelfand:  Terminating Orderings.   Histograms of min-fill based tree-width 
		  William Lam: AOMDDs:   PPTX  ,   PDF  
         
          
        Week 3  
        1/21  
       
        William: AOMDDs:   PPTX  ,   PDF  
	  Rina
         
         
       Week 4  
        1/28  
       
         Natasha:   Akshat Kumar &amp; Shlomo Zilberstein. MAP Estimation for graphical Models by Likelihood Maximization. UMass , Slides:   PDF 
		     Lars:  Anytime Depth-First Search
versus Problem Decomposition. Submitted to IJCAI 2011. 
         
         
        Week 5  
        2/4  
       
         Lars:  Jegelka, Bilmes. Online algorithms for submodular minimization with combinatorial constraints 
	   Teague: Reddi S.J., Sarawagi S., Vishwanathan S.; MAP estimation in Binary MRFs via Bipartite Multi-cuts; NIPS 2010.   Slides 
     
         
          
       Week 6  
        2/11  
       
        Andrew: Joseph Gonzalez, Yucheng Low, and Carlos Guestrin (2009). "Residual Splash for Optimally Parallelizing Belief Propagation." In Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (AISTATS).   Slides 
	   Rina Dechter: Finding the m best solutions using search.  Slides 
        
         
         
       Week 7  
        2/18  
       
         Qiang: Sum-product bounds via Holder's inequality. (Weighted mini-buckets)

         
          
       Week 8  
        2/25  
       
         William: Daniel Lowd, University of Oregon; Pedro Domingos. Approximate Inference by Compilation to Arithmetic Circuits. University of Washington. Slides 
           Teague: Tomas Werner. A Linear Programming Approach to Max-sum Problem: A Review.
 slides ,  paper , 
 extended paper .
         
         
       Week 9  
       3/4  
       
         Jenny Lam: Jim C. Huang, Nebojsa Jojic and Christopher Meek. Exact inference and learning for cumulative distribution functions on loopy graphs.  Slides 
	
         
         
       Week 10  
       3/11  
       
         
         
           

</body> 