 graduate student policies @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Graduate  &gt;  policies  


     
 Graduate Student Policies: Enrollment Status 

 
 

   Filing Fee 
 Graduate students are eligible for one filing fee quarter during their
graduate career. During the filing fee quarter, students pay one-half the
registration fee and do not enroll in any classes. 
 The Filing Fee option applies only to students who have completed ALL
requirements for a M.S. or Ph.D. degree except for official submission of a
thesis or dissertation to the University Archives, or completion of the final
formal examination (e.g., the comprehensive examination).This means that prior
to the beginning of the "filing fee" quarter ALL other requirements for the
degree must have been met by the student, including advancement to candidacy
and the resolution of any NR or I grades. Consult the ICS Graduate Counselors
for other policies and limitations related to the filing fee. 
 International visa restrictions may preclude filing fee status for
students who are not citizens or permanent residents of the United States.
International students should verify their eligibility for filing fee status
via the International Center well in advance of need. 
 Students should note that there is a separate form when submitting a
summer filing fee petition. Both the Filing Fee Petition and the Summer Filing
Fee Petition can be found on the Graduate Division website here. 
   In-Absentia Registration 
 In absentia registration applies to full-time, regularly enrolled and
registered students who have an academic need to conduct coursework or research related
to their degree program outside of California. 
 More
information can be found on the In-Absentia Registration Form on the Graduate Division
website  here .
 
   Leave of Absence 
 All graduate students can petition for a leave of absence from the
program for a period of up to, but no more than,  three quarters total .  
 The LOA
petition is available for download from the Graduate Division website  here . Students should fill out the form
well in advance to make sure it gets approved. The campus deadline is
Friday of the third week of classes. However, ICS recommends that students
submit the Leave of Absence petition by the registration deadline each quarter. 
 The leave must be approved by
both the ICS Graduate Office and the Dean of Graduate Division, as well as the
International Center for all international students. The Graduate
Division will notify students via email once the leave has been approved or
denied. 
   Part-Time Enrollment 
 Unless
enrolled in an approved part-time master's degree program (as described in
UCI’s General Catalogue), approval of part-time enrollment status may be granted
only for reasons of occupation, family responsibilities or health. Eligibility
for part-time study also depends on other factors, such as citizenship or residency,
and fellowships. ICS Ph.D. are typically not eligible to apply. 
 The full guidelines to determine part-time eligibility, as
well as instructions on how to submit the request, can be found on the Reduced
Fee Part-Time Study Program petition, which can be downloaded from the Graduate
Division website  here . 
 The campus deadline to submit a Part-Time Study petition is noon on
Wednesday of the third week of classes. However, ICS recommends that students
submit the Part-Time petition by the registration deadline each quarter. 
   Summer Enrollment 
 Continuing graduate students generally do not need to enroll in Summer
Session (international students on CPT may be required to enroll). However,
students who will graduate during summer quarter MUST either be enrolled or on
Filing Fee (if eligible). During the summer, graduating students will generally
enroll in the minimum allowable units (two) of Individual Study or Thesis
Supervision with their advisor. Graduating students who do not have an advisor
should consult the ICS Graduate Counselors for assistance with summer
enrollment. 


 
 
 
  More Graduate » 
   Contact  
  Prospective students  
  How to Apply  
  Programs of study  
  Academic year plan  
  Forms  
  Policies  
  Funding &amp; housing  
  Computing support  
  Campus resources  
  Visit the Bren School  
  Graduate Student Handbook  
  
   Quick Links   
                        
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 