 
 
 
	 
		<title>Organizations 
		 
		 
	 

	<body>
		 
			 Organizations 

			 
				 
					  20th Century Entertainments  
					  A K Peters  
					  Aarhus Univ. Hospital, Dept. of Cardiothoracic &amp; Vascular Surgery  
					  Aarhus Univ., Datalogisk afdeling  
					  Aarhus Univ., Datalogisk afdeling, Center for Basic Research in Computer Science (BRICS)  
					  Aarhus Univ., Dept. of Operations Research  
					  Academy of Sciences, Mathematical Inst.  
					  Accelight Networks  
					  ACM  
					  ACM Computing Research Repository  
					  Addison-Wesley  
					  AdNovum Software, Inc.  
					  Aerie Networks  
					  Agricultural Univ. Athens, Mathematics Lab.  
					  Akamai Technologies Inc.  
					  Albert-Ludwigs-Univ. Freiburg, Inst. für Informatik  
					  Albert-Ludwigs-Univ. Freiburg, Inst. für Mathematische Logik  
					  Albert-Ludwigs-Univ. Freiburg, Mathematischen Fakultät  
					  Alcatel R&amp;I, Optical Systems and Networks  
					  ALCOM-IT  
					  Alias/Wavefront  
					  Altera Corp.  
					  Amer. Math. Soc.  
					  Amer. Soc. Mechanical Engineers  
					  American Assoc. Artificial Intelligence  
					  American Inst. Aeronautics &amp; Astronautics  
					  American Scientist  
					  American Univ., Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Information Systems  
					  Andersen Consulting  
					  Annual Reviews  
					  ANSYS, Inc.  
					  Aptima, Inc.  
					  Argonne Nat. Lab., Mathematics &amp; Computer Science Div.  
					  Aristotle Univ. of Thessaloniki, Dept. of Informatics  
					  Arizona State Univ., Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Engineering  
					  Army Research Office  
					  arXiv.org e-Print archive  
					  Assoc. Surveyors of Slovenia  
					  Astronomical Observatory  
					  AT&amp;T Labs &#8211; Research  
					  Auburn Univ., Department of Discrete and Statistical Sciences  
					  Auburn Univ., Department of Mathematics  
					  Auckland Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Auckland Univ., Mathematics Dept.  
					  Australian Defense Org., Defense Science &amp; Technology Org., Aeronautical and Maritime Research Lab., Air Operations Div.  
					  Australian Nat. Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  AutoForm Engineering GmbH  
					  Bar Ilan Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Baylor Univ., Ctr. for Applied Geographic &amp; Spatial Research  
					  Belarus State Univ. of Informatics and Radioelectronics  
					  Bell Communications Research  
					  Bell Laboratories  
					  Belorussian Academy of Sciences, Inst. of Mathematics  
					  Ben-Gurion Univ. of the Negev, Dept. of Mathematics &amp; Computer Science  
					  Bethlehem Steel Corp., Homer Research Lab.  
					  Bioreason, Inc.  
					  Bios Group  
					  Birkbeck College, Dept. of Computer Science and Information Systems  
					  Birkbeck College, Dept. of Geography  
					  Birkhauser  
					  Boise State Univ., Dept. of Mathematics &amp; Computer Science  
					  Boston Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Brigham Young Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Brigham Young Univ., Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering  
					  Brigham Young Univ., Dept. of Mechanical Engineering  
					  Brown Univ., Computer Science Dept.  
					  Brunel Univ., Dept. of Systems Engineering  
					  Cadence Design Systems  
					  Cadence Design Systems Inc.  
					  California Inst. of Technology, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  California State Univ., Fullerton, Engineering &amp; Computer Science  
					  California State Univ., Northridge, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Calvin College, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Cambridge Press  
					  Cambridge Univ. Press  
					  Canad. Inf. Proc. Soc.  
					  Canon Inc., Creative Engineering Environment Development Ctr.  
					  Cardiff Univ., School of Computer Science  
					  Carleton Scientific  
					  Carleton Univ. Press  
					  Carleton Univ., School of Computer Science  
					  Carleton Univ., School of Mathematics &amp; Statistics  
					  Carnegie-Mellon Univ., Dept. of Civil &amp; Environmental Engineering  
					  Carnegie-Mellon Univ., Dept. of Mathematical Sciences  
					  Carnegie-Mellon Univ., Dept. of Mechanical Engineering  
					  Carnegie-Mellon Univ., Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering Dept.  
					  Carnegie-Mellon Univ., GSIA  
					  Carnegie-Mellon Univ., Mathematics Dept.  
					  Carnegie-Mellon Univ., Robotics Inst.  
					  Carnegie-Mellon Univ., School of Computer Science  
					  Case Western Reserve Univ., Electrical Engineering &amp; Computer Science Dept.  
					  Celera Genomics  
					  Central Washington Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Centre de Recherche Astronomique de Lyon (CRAL)  
					  Centre de recherche en calcul appliqué (CERCA)  
					  Centre Nat. de la Recherche Scientifique  
					  Centrum voor Wiskunde en Informatica  
					  CertCo  
					  Chalmers Univ. of Technology, Chalmers Finite Element Center  
					  Chalmers Univ. of Technology, Dept. of Computer Engineering  
					  Chalmers Univ. of Technology, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Chalmers Univ. of Technology, Inst. für Datavetenskap  
					  Charles Univ., Dept. of Applied Mathematics  
					  Charles Univ., Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Operational Research  
					  Charles Univ., Dept. of Theor. Computer Science &amp; Mathematical Logic (KTIML)  
					  Charles Univ., Faculty of Mathematics and Physics  
					  Charles Univ., Inst. Teoretické Informatiky (ITI)  
					  ChemConnect  
					  Chemical Computing Group, Inc.  
					  Chinese Acad. of Science, Nat. Lab. of Pattern Recognition  
					  Chinese Acad. of Science, State Key Lab. of Scientific and Engineering Computing  
					  Christian-Albrechts-Univ. Kiel, Inst. für Informatik und Praktische Mathematik  
					  Chung-Ang Univ., Dept. of Comp. Sci. Eng.  
					  Chuo Univ., Dept. of Information &amp; System Engineering  
					  CIENA Corp.  
					  City College of New York, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  City College of New York, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  City Univ. of Hong Kong, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  CNRS, Lab. d'Informatique Algorithmique: Fondements et Applications (LIAFA)  
					  CNRS, Lab. d'Informatique, Modélisation et d'Optimisation des Systèmes  
					  CNRS, Lab. for Analysis and Architecture of Systems  
					  CNRS, Lab. Génome et Informatique  
					  Colorado State Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Colorado State Univ., Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering  
					  Columbia Univ., Computational Optimization Research Ctr.  
					  Columbia Univ., Computer Science Dept.  
					  Columbia Univ., Dean of Engineering &amp; Applied Science  
					  Columbia Univ., Industrial Eng. &amp; Operations Research  
					  Commisariat á l'Énergie Atomique  
					  Compaq, Cambridge Research Lab.  
					  Computer Technology Inst.  
					  Cons. Nazionale delle Ricerche, Inst. di Analisii dei Sistemi ed Informatica  
					  Cons. Nazionale delle Ricerche, Inst. di Matematica Applicata e Tecnologie Informatiche,  Sezione di Genova  
					  Cons. Nazionale delle Ricerche, Inst. di Matematica Computazionale  
					  Cons. Nazionale delle Ricerche, Inst. di Scienza e Tecnologie per l'Informazione (ISTI)  
					  Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Inst. de Matemáticas y Física Fundamental  
					  CoRiTel  
					  Cornell Univ., Ctr. for Applied Mathematics  
					  Cornell Univ., Ctr. for Theory &amp; Simulation in Sci. &amp; Engr., Advanced Computing Research Inst.  
					  Cornell Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Cornell Univ., Program of Computer Graphics  
					  CRC Press  
					  CSIRO ICT Centre, BioMedIA Lab  
					  CSREA Press  
					  CTA, Inc.  
					  Cuvillier-Verlag  
					  Czech Technical Univ. of Prague, Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering  
					  Dalhousie Univ., Dept. of Mathematics and Statistics  
					  Dalhousie Univ., Faculty of Computer Science  
					  Dartmouth College, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Daylight Chemical Information Systems, Inc.  
					  De Paul Univ., School of Computer Science, Telecommunications, &amp; Information Systems  
					  Delft Univ. of Technology, Network Architecture and Services Group  
					  DePaul Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Detica  
					  Deutsche Telekom AG, Fachhochschule Leipzig  
					  Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum, Theoretische Bioinformatik  
					  Diamond Technology Partners, Inc.  
					  Digital Equipment Corp., Systems Research Ctr.  
					  Discreet Logic  
					  Drew Univ., Dept. of Mathematics &amp; Computer Science  
					  Duke Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Duke Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  EADS Dornier GmbH  
					  Eberhard-Karls-Univ. Tübingen, Wilhelm-Schickard Inst. für Informatik  
					  Eckerd College  
					  École Nat. des Ponts et Chaussees, Ctr. d'Enseignement et de Recherche en Technologies de l'Information et Systèmes (CERTIS)  
					  École Nat. Sup. des Mines de Saint-Etienne  
					  École Nat. Sup. des Télécommunications, Dept. of Computer Science and Networks  
					  École Nat. Sup. des Télécommunications, Signal and Image Processing Dept.  
					  École Norm. Sup. de Lyon, Lab. de Physique  
					  École Norm. Sup. de Lyon, LIP  
					  École Polytechnique de Montréal, Dep. de Génie Électrique  
					  École Polytechnique de Montréal, Dep. de Mathématique et de Génie Industriel  
					  École Polytechnique Fédéral de Lausanne, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich, Computer Graphics Lab.  
					  Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich, Dept. Bau, Umwelt und Geomatik  
					  Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich, Dept. of Materials  
					  Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich, Inst. für Theoretische Informatik  
					  Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich, Inst. für Wissenschaftliches Rechnen  
					  Electronic Colloq. on Computational Complexity  
					  Electrotechnical Lab.  
					  Elsevier  
					  Emory Univ., Dept. of Mathematics &amp; Computer Science  
					  Eötvös Loránd Tudományegyetem, Dept. of Algebra and Number Theory  
					  Ericsson  
					  Ericsson Lab Italy  
					  Eur. Assoc. for Computer Graphics  
					  Eur. Assoc. for Theoretical Computer Science  
					  Eur. Community Esprit Working Group in Neural Computational Learning Theory  
					  Europe Southern Observatory  
					  Eyeball.com  
					  Fachhochschule Aachen, Fachb. Chemie und Biotechnik  
					  Fern-Univ. Hagen, Praktische Informatik VI  
					  Florida State Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Florida State Univ., School of Computational Science &amp; Information Technology  
					  Fore Systems  
					  Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH, Zentralinst. für Angewandte Mathematik  
					  Fox Chase Cancer Ctr., Research Computing Services  
					  France Telecom Research &amp; Development  
					  Fraunhofer Inst. for Autonomous Intelligent Systems  
					  Freie Univ. Berlin, Fachb. Mathematik  
					  Freie Univ. Berlin, Inst. für Informatik  
					  Friedrich-Alexander Univ. Erlangen-Nürnberg, Inst. für Informatik  
					  Friedrich-Schiller-Univ. Jena, Fakultät für Mathematik und Informatik  
					  FRL  
					  Gamma Remote Sensing AG  
					  Gdansk Technical Univ., Dept. of Foundations of Informatics  
					  General Motors Research &amp; Dev. Ctr., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Geometrix, Inc.  
					  George Mason Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  George Mason Univ., School of Business Administration  
					  Georgetown Univ., Computer Science Dept.  
					  Georgia Inst. of Technology, College of Computing  
					  Georgia Inst. of Technology, Dept. of Industrial &amp; Systems Engineering  
					  Georgia Inst. of Technology, School of Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering  
					  Georgia Southern Univ., Dept. of Mathematics and Computer Science  
					  Georgia State Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Gesellschaft für die Anwendung Offener Systeme (GAOS) e.V.  
					  Google  
					  Graz Univ. of Tech., Inst. for Theoretical Computer Science  
					  Griffith Univ., School of Computing and Information Technology  
					  Groupe d'Études et de Recherche en Analyse des Décisions  
					  Groupe ESIEE, Dép. Informatique  
					  Haifa Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Hartung-Gorre Verlag  
					  Harvard Univ.  
					  Harvard Univ., Aiken Computation Lab.  
					  Harvard Univ., Ctr. for Research in Computing Technology  
					  Harvard Univ., Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Applied Mathematics  
					  Harvard Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Heinz Nixdorf Inst.  
					  Hermes Softlab  
					  Hewlett-Packard Laboratories  
					  Hewlett-Packard Laboratory, Storage Systems Program  
					  Hewlett-Packard, Cupertino Open Systems Lab.  
					  Hofstra Univ., Mathematics Dept.  
					  Hong Kong Baptist Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Hong Kong Polytechnic Univ.  
					  Hong Kong Polytechnic Univ., Dept. of Land Surveying &amp; Geo-Informatics  
					  Hong Kong Univ. of Science &amp; Tech., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Hong Kong Univ. of Science &amp; Tech., Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Engineering Management  
					  Hosei Univ.  
					  Humboldt-Univ. zu Berlin, Inst. für Informatik  
					  Hyseq, Inc.  
					  Ibaraki Univ., Dept. of Computer &amp; Information Sciences  
					  IBM Austin Research Lab.  
					  IBM Deutschland Speichersysteme GmbH  
					  IBM Electronic Design Automation  
					  IBM Israel Science &amp; Tech., Haifa Research Lab.  
					  IBM Japan, Tokyo Research Lab.  
					  IBM Storage Systems Germany GmbH  
					  IBM, Almaden Research Ctr.  
					  IBM, Research Triangle Park  
					  IBM, T. J. Watson Research Ctr.  
					  IEEE  
					  IEEE Computer Society Press  
					  IEICE  
					  IIIS Press  
					  Illinois Inst. Tech., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  IMEC-DESICS  
					  Imperial College of Science, Technology, and Medicine, Ctr. for Planning and Resource Control  
					  Imperial College of Science, Technology, and Medicine, Ctr. for Transportation Studies  
					  Imperial College of Science, Technology, and Medicine, Department of Computing  
					  Imperial College of Science, Technology, and Medicine, Faculty of Engineering  
					  Imperial College of Science, Technology, and Medicine, Management School  
					  Indian Inst. of Science, Bangalore, Computer Science and Automation Dept.  
					  Indian Inst. of Tech., Delhi, Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Engineering  
					  Indian Inst. of Tech., Kanpur, Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Engineering  
					  Indian Inst. of Tech., Kharagpur, Dept. of Computer &amp; Information Sciences  
					  Indian Inst. of Tech., Kharagpur, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Indian Statistical Inst., Advanced Computing and Microelectronics Unit  
					  Indian Statistical Inst., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Indiana Univ. of Pennsylvania, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Indiana Univ., Computer Science Dept.  
					  Inf. Proc. Soc. Japan, Special Interest Group on Algorithms  
					  Information Systems Laboratory, Inc.  
					  Informix Software, Inc.  
					  Inst. Dalle Molle di Studi sull'Intelligenza Artificiale (IDSIA)  
					  Inst. de Physique Nucléaire de Lyon  
					  Inst. de Recherche en Informatique et Systèmes Aléatoires (IRISA)  
					  Inst. for Animal Health  
					  Inst. Mathematical Sciences  
					  Inst. Nat. de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique (INRIA), Rhône-Alpes  
					  Inst. Nat. de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique (INRIA), Rocquencourt  
					  Inst. Nat. de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique (INRIA), Sophia Antipolis  
					  Inst. Nat. Polytechnique de Grenoble, Lab. des Images &amp; des Signaux  
					  Inst. of New Technologies  
					  Int. Cartographic Assoc.  
					  Int. Computer Games Assoc.  
					  Int. Soc. Grid Generation  
					  Intel Corp.  
					  Intel Israel Development Ctr.  
					  IOS Press  
					  Iowa State Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Iowa State Univ., Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering  
					  Iowa State Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Iowa State Univ., Mechanical Engineering Dept.  
					  IT Univ. of Copenhagen  
					  Jadavpur Univ.  
					  Japan Advanced Inst. of Science &amp; Technology, School of Information Science  
					  Japan Science and Technology Corp. (JST)  
					  Joensuun Univ.  
					  Johann Wolfgang Goethe-Univ. Frankfurt, Fachb. Informatik  
					  John Wiley &amp; Sons  
					  Johns Hopkins Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Johns Hopkins Univ., Dept. of Mathematical Sciences  
					  Johns Hopkins Univ., Dept. of Radiology  
					  Jyväskylän Univ.  
					  KAIST, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Kent State Univ.  
					  King's College London, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Kluwer Academic Publishing  
					  Kodak  
					  Konrad-Zuse-Zentrum für Informationstechnik Berlin (ZIB)  
					  Korea Univ., Dept. of Mechanical Engineering  
					  Korean Operations Research and Management Science Soc.  
					  Kungl. Tekniska Högskolan, Inst. för Numerisk Analys och Datalogi  
					  Kunsthochschule für Medien Köln  
					  Kutztown Univ., Mathematics and CIS Dept.  
					  Kyoto  
					  Kyoto Sangyo Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Kyoto Univ., Dept. of Agriculture  
					  Kyoto Univ., Dept. of Applied Mathematics &amp; Physics  
					  Kyoto Univ., Dept. of Architecture  
					  Kyungsung Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  L'École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales, Centre d'Analyse et de Mathématique Sociale  
					  Lab. Nacional de Computação Científica  
					  Landmark Graphics  
					  Lappeenranta Univ. of Technology  
					  Lawrence Berkeley Nat. Lab., Life Sciences Division  
					  Leeds Univ., School of Computer Studies  
					  Leetide International  
					  Lehigh University, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Lehman College, Dept. of Mathematics &amp; Computer Science  
					  Linköping Univ., Dept. of Computer and Information Science  
					  Linköping Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  LMS CADSI, Mechanical Simulation Technologies Div.  
					  LogicaCMG  
					  Los Alamos Nat. Lab.  
					  Louisiana State Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Louisiana State Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Louisiana State Univ., Information Systems &amp; Decision Sciences Dept.  
					  Loyola College, Maryland, Computer Science Dept.  
					  Luleå Inst. of Tech., Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Electrical Engineering  
					  Lund Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Macalester College, Mathematics &amp; Computer Science Dept.  
					  Marcel Dekker  
					  Martin-Luther-Univ. Halle-Wittenberg, Inst. für Informatik  
					  Masaryk Univ., Faculty of Informatics  
					  Massachusetts Inst. Tech.  
					  Massachusetts Inst. Tech., Artificial Intelligence Laboratory  
					  Massachusetts Inst. Tech., Dept. of Aeronautics &amp; Astronautics  
					  Massachusetts Inst. Tech., Dept. of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science  
					  Massachusetts Inst. Tech., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Massachusetts Inst. Tech., Lab for Information and Decision Systems  
					  Massachusetts Inst. Tech., Lab. for Computer Science  
					  Mathematical Sciences Research Inst.  
					  Matrex Ox  
					  Max-Planck-Inst. für Astronomie  
					  Max-Planck-Inst. für Biochemie, Munich Inf. Ctr. for Protein Sequences  
					  Max-Planck-Inst. für biologische Kybernetik  
					  Max-Planck-Inst. für Informatik  
					  McGill Univ., Dept. of Mathematics and Statistics  
					  McGill Univ., School of Computer Science  
					  Medizinische Univ. zu Zübeck, Inst. für Theoretische Informatik  
					  Meiji Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Memorial Univ. of Newfoundland, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Mentor Graphics  
					  Michigan State Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Microsoft Research, Cambridge  
					  Microsoft Research, Redmond  
					  Middle East Tech. Univ., Electrical and Electronics Engineering Dept.  
					  Middlebury College, Dept. of Mathematics &amp; Computer Science  
					  Ministry Int. Trade and Industry, Agency Indust. Sci. &amp; Tech., Electrotechnical Lab.  
					  Mitsubishi Research Laboratories (MERL)  
					  Mobil E&amp;P Technical Center  
					  Moldovan Academy of Sciences, Inst. of Mathematics  
					  Montana State Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Morgan Kaufmann  
					  Nagoya Univ., Faculty of Engineering  
					  Nanyang Technological Univ., Ctr. for Advanced Information Systems  
					  NASA, Ames Research Ctr.  
					  NASA, Langley Research Ctr.  
					  Nat. Acad. Press  
					  Nat. Acad. Sci. Ukr., V. M. Glushkov Inst. of Cybernetics  
					  Nat. Cancer Inst., Lab. of Mathematical Biology  
					  Nat. Central Univ., Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Information Engineering  
					  Nat. Chiao Tung Univ., Dept. of Applied Mathematics  
					  Nat. Chung Cheng Univ., Dept. of Electrical Engineering  
					  Nat. Ctr. for Atmospheric Research, Scientific Computing Division, Computational Science Section  
					  Nat. Ctr. for Biotechnology Information  
					  Nat. Ctr. for Geographic Information and Analysis  
					  Nat. Energy Res. Sci. Comp. Ctr., Lawrence Berkeley Nat. Lab.  
					  Nat. Inst. Aerospace  
					  Nat. Inst. of Health, Nat. Human Genome Research Inst.  
					  Nat. Inst. of Standards &amp; Technology, Mathematical &amp; Computational Sciences Div.  
					  Nat. Research Council, Inst. for Information Technology  
					  Nat. Taiwan Inst. of Technology, Dept. of Information Management  
					  Nat. Taiwan Univ., Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Information Engineering  
					  Nat. Technical Univ. of Athens, Dept. Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering  
					  Nat. Univ. of Ireland, Maynooth, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Nat. Univ. of Singapore, Dept. of Information Systems &amp; Computer Science  
					  Nat. Univ. of Singapore, Dept. of Mechanical Engineering  
					  Nat. Univ. of Singapore, School of Computing  
					  National Tsin Hua Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  NEC Research Inst.  
					  Nederlandstalige TeX Gebruikersgroep  
					  Neurotec Corp.  
					  New Jersey Inst. of Technology, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  New Jersey Inst. of Technology, Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering  
					  New Mexico State Univ., Computer Science Dept.  
					  New Mexico State Univ., Computing Research Lab.  
					  New York Univ., Courant Inst.  
					  Nijenrode Univ., Ctr. for Supply Chain Mgmt.  
					  Nixu Ltd.  
					  Nortel Networks  
					  North Carolina State Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Northeastern Univ.  
					  Northeastern Univ., College of Computer Science  
					  Northern Telecom  
					  Northwest (Xibei) Polytechnical Univ., Dept. of Applied Mathematics  
					  Northwestern Univ., Dept. of Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering  
					  Northwestern Univ., Dept. of Mechanical Engineering  
					  Northwestern Univ., Program in Theoretical &amp; Applied Mechanics  
					  Ohio State Univ., Dept. of Computer &amp; Information Science  
					  Oklahoma State Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Osaka Univ., Graduate School of Engineering Science  
					  Otto-von-Güricke-Univ. Magdeburg, Fakultät für Informatik  
					  Otto-von-Güricke-Univ. Magdeburg, Inst. für Theoretische Physik  
					  Oxford Univ.  
					  Oxford Univ. Press  
					  Oxford Univ., Computing Lab.  
					  Paul-Sherrer-Inst.  
					  Pennsylvania State U., Dept. of Biochemistry &amp; Molecular Biology  
					  Pennsylvania State U., Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Engineering  
					  Pennsylvania State U., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Placeware, Inc.  
					  PMC Sierra  
					  Polytechnic Univ., Computer Science Dept.  
					  Prentice Hall  
					  Princeton Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Princeton Univ., Dept. of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering  
					  Princeton Univ., Program in Statistics and Operations Research  
					  Providence Univ., Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Information Management  
					  Purdue Univ., Dept. of Computer Sciences  
					  Purdue Univ., School of Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering  
					  PWS Publishing  
					  Qualcomm  
					  Queen's Univ., Dept. Computing &amp; Information Science  
					  Radan Computational Ltd.  
					  Raindrop Geomagic  
					  Rensselear Polytechnic Inst.  
					  Rensselear Polytechnic Inst., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Rensselear Polytechnic Inst., Scientific Computation Research Ctr.  
					  Rheinisch-Westfälischen Technischen Hochschule Aachen, Fachgruppe Informatik  
					  Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Univ. Bonn, Forschungsinst. für Diskrete Mathematik  
					  Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Univ. Bonn, Inst. für Angewandte Mathematik  
					  Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Univ. Bonn, Inst. für Informatik  
					  Rice Univ., Dept. of Computational &amp; Applied Mathematics  
					  Rice Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Rice Univ., Dept. of Mechanical Engineering &amp; Materials Science  
					  Rice Univ., Mechanical Engineering &amp; Materials Science Dept.  
					  Rochester Inst. of Technology, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Rovira i Virgili Univ., Dept. of Computer Science Engineering  
					  Royal Holoway Univ. of London, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Russian Acad. Sci., Program Systems Inst.  
					  Rutgers Univ., Ctr. for Discrete Math. &amp; Theor. Comp. Sci.  
					  Rutgers Univ., Ctr. for Operations Research  
					  Rutgers Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  San Francisco State Univ., Mathematics Dept.  
					  Sandia Nat. Lab.  
					  Santa Fe Inst.  
					  Sarnoff Corp.  
					  Satyendra Nath Bose Nat. Ctr. for Basic Sciences  
					  Schlumberger Sema  
					  Science Applications International Corp.  
					  Science News  
					  Seoul Nat. Univ., Dept. of Computer Engineering  
					  Serbian Acad. Science &amp; Arts, Mathematical Inst.  
					  Sharif Univ. of Technology, Electrical Engineering Dept.  
					  Sheffield Hallam Univ., School of Computing and Management Sciences  
					  SIAM  
					  Siemens AG, CT IC2 ON  
					  Siena College, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Silesian Univ., Inst. of Chemistry  
					  Silicon Graphics  
					  Simon Fraser Univ., School of Computer Science  
					  Slovak Acad. Sci., Inst. of Mathematics  
					  Smith College, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals  
					  Soc. for Imaging Science and Technology  
					  Soc. for Information Display  
					  Soc. for Modeling &amp; Simulation International  
					  Softimage Inc.  
					  Southern Poro Communications  
					  Springer-Verlag  
					  Springer-Wien  
					  Stanford Univ., Computer Science Dept.  
					  Stanford Univ., Dept. of Electrical Engineering  
					  Stanford Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Stanford Univ., Dept. of Pathology and Dept. of Genetics  
					  State Univ. of New York at Albany, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  State Univ. of New York at Buffalo, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  State Univ. of New York at Stony Brook, Dept. of Applied Math. &amp; Statistics  
					  State Univ. of New York at Stony Brook, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  State Univ. of New York at Stony Brook, Mathematical Sciences Inst.  
					  Steklov Institute of Mathematics at St.Petersburg  
					  Sterrewacht Leiden  
					  Stetson Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Stuttgart Univ., Inst. for Photogrammetry  
					  Suger  
					  Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd.  
					  Sun Microsystems  
					  Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Communications Technology Laboratory  
					  Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Signal Processing Lab.  
					  Syddansk Univ., Odense, Fysisk Inst.  
					  Syracuse Univ.  
					  T-Systems Nova GmbH  
					  Tampere Univ. of Technology, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Taylor &amp; Francis  
					  Technical Univ. of Denmark  
					  Technical Univ. of Eindhoven  
					  Technical Univ. of Eindhoven, Faculty of Mathematics and Computer Science  
					  Technical Univ. of Eindhoven, IPO, Center for User-System Interaction  
					  Technical Univ. of Lodz, Inst. of Electronics  
					  Technion, Israel Inst. Technology, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Technion, Israel Inst. Technology, Dept. of Electrical Engineering  
					  Technion, Israel Inst. Technology, Dept. of Mechanical Engineering  
					  Technion, Israel Inst. Technology, Faculty of Mathematics  
					  Technische Hochschule Darmstadt  
					  Technische Hochschule Darmstadt, Fachb. Informatik  
					  Technische Univ. Berlin, Fachbereich Mathematik  
					  Technische Univ. Braunschweig, Fachb. Mathematik  
					  Technische Univ. Chemnitz, Fak. für Mathematik  
					  Technische Univ. Dresden, Inst. für Geometrie  
					  Technische Univ. Eindhoven, Dept. of Operations, Planning, Accounting, and Control  
					  Technische Univ. Eindhoven, Fac. Wiskunde en Informatica  
					  Technische Univ. Graz, Inst. für Grundlagen der Informationsverarbeitung  
					  Technische Univ. Graz, Inst. für Informationsverarbeitung  
					  Technische Univ. Graz, Inst. für Maschinelles Sehen und Darstellen  
					  Technische Univ. Graz, Inst. für Mathematik  
					  Technische Univ. München, Inst. für Informatik  
					  Technische Univ. München, Lehrstuhl für Angewandte Mathematik  
					  Technische Univ. Wien, Fak. für Elektrotechnik  
					  Technische Univ. Wien, Inst. for Microelectronics  
					  Technische Univ. Wien, Inst. für Computergraphik und Algorithmen  
					  Technische Univ. Wien, Inst. of Computer Graphics  
					  Tel Aviv Academic College  
					  Tel Aviv Univ.  
					  Tel Aviv Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Tel Aviv Univ., Dept. of Electrical Engineering &#8211; Systems  
					  Tel Aviv Univ., Dept. of Industrial Engineering  
					  Tel Aviv Univ., Dept. of Statistics &amp; Operations Research  
					  Telcordia Technologies  
					  Temple Univ., Dept. of Computer &amp; Information Sciences  
					  Tera Computer Co.  
					  Texas A&amp;M Univ., Dept. of Aerospace Engineering  
					  Texas A&amp;M Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Texas A&amp;M Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Texas A&amp;M Univ., Inst. for Scientific Computation  
					  Thales Research Limited  
					  The Hebrew University, Inst. of Computer Science  
					  The Weizmann Inst. of Science  
					  The Weizmann Inst. of Science, Dept. of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics  
					  The Weizmann Inst. of Science, Faculty of Mathematical Sciences  
					  Tilburg Univ., Dept. of Econometrics  
					  Tohoku Univ., Education Ctr. for Information Processing  
					  Tohoku Univ., Grad. School of Information Sciences  
					  Tokai Univ., Math. Inst.  
					  Tokyo Denki Univ., Dept. of Mathematical Sciences  
					  Tokyo Inst. of Technology  
					  Tokyo Inst. of Technology, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Tokyo Inst. of Technology, Dept. of Industrial Engineering &amp; Management  
					  Tokyo Inst. of Technology, Dept. of Mathematical and Computing Sciences  
					  Toyohashi Univ. of Technology, Dept. of Knowledge-based Information Engineering  
					  Toyota Technological Inst.  
					  Transarc Corp.  
					  Transport-, Informatik- und Logistik-Consulting GmbH  
					  Transportation Research Board  
					  Trinity Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  TU Bergakademie Freiberg, Fak. für Mathematik und Informatik  
					  TU Bergakademie Freiberg, Inst. für Theoretische Mathematik  
					  Tufts Univ., Dept. of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science  
					  Turku Ctr. for Computer Science  
					  U.S. Army Research Lab.  
					  U.S. Military Academy, West Point  
					  Unilever Research and Development Vlaardingen  
					  Univ d'Orléans, Lab. d'Informatique Fondamentale d'Orl{\'e}ans (LIFO)  
					  Univ. Alcalá de Henares, Dep. de Ciencias de la Computación  
					  Univ. Augsburg, Inst. für Informatik  
					  Univ. Augsburg, Inst. für Mathematik  
					  Univ. Autónoma de Barcelona, Centre de Recerca Matemàtica  
					  Univ. Autónoma Metropolitana, Dep. de Matemàticas  
					  Univ. Blaise-Pascal  
					  Univ. Ca' Foscari di Venezia, Dip. di Mathematica Applicata ed Informatica  
					  Univ. Claude Bernard Lyon 1, UFR d'Informatique, Lab. d'Informatique Graphique Image et Modélisation  
					  Univ. de Alcalá, Dep. de Matemáticas  
					  Univ. de Almería, Depto. de Estadística y Matemática Aplicada  
					  Univ. de Bretagne-Sud  
					  Univ. de Buenos Aires, Dep. de Computación  
					  Univ. de Cantabria, Dept. Matemáticas, Estadística y Computación  
					  Univ. de Chile, Dep. de Ciencias de la Computación  
					  Univ. de Chile, Dep. de Ingeniería Matemática  
					  Univ. de Coimbra, Dep. de Matemática  
					  Univ. de Coimbra, Inst. de Engenharia de Sistemas e Computadores  
					  Univ. de Extremadura, Dept. Matemáticas  
					  Univ. de Grenoble I, Inst. Fourier  
					  Univ. de Haute-Alsace, Lab. de Modélisation et Algorithmique Géométrique  
					  Univ. de Jaén, Escuela Politécnica Superior  
					  Univ. de L'Aquila, Dip. di Ingegneria Elettrica  
					  Univ. de L'Aquila, Dip. di Matematica Pura ed Applicata  
					  Univ. de Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Dept. of Cartography and Graphic Engineering  
					  Univ. de Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Depto. de Matemática Aplicada  
					  Univ. de Málaga, Dep. de Lenguajes y Ciencias de la Computación  
					  Univ. de Marne-La-Vallée  
					  Univ. de Marne-La-Vallée, Inst. Gaspard-Monge  
					  Univ. de Montpellier 2, Lab. d'Informatique, Robotique et Microélectronique de Montpellier  
					  Univ. de Montréal, Dept. of Computer Science and Operations Research  
					  Univ. de Oviedo, Dep. de Informática  
					  Univ. de Paris-Sud, Lab. de Recherche en Informatique  
					  Univ. de Rouen, Lab. d'Informatique (LIR)  
					  Univ. de Sao Paulo, Inst. de Matemática e Estatística  
					  Univ. de Sevilla, Depto. de Matemática Aplicada I  
					  Univ. de Zaragoza, Centro Politécnica Superior, Dep. de Ingeniería Mecánica  
					  Univ. degli Studi di Firenze, Dip. di Sistemi e Informatica  
					  Univ. degli Studi di Perugia, Dip. di Ingegneria, Elettronica e dell'Informazione  
					  Univ. della Calabria, Dip. di Elettronica Informatica e Sistemistica  
					  Univ. des Saarlandes, Fachb. Informatik  
					  Univ. di Bologna, Dip. di Elettronica, Informatica e Sistemistica  
					  Univ. di Camerino, Dip. di Matematica e Fisica  
					  Univ. di Genova, Dip. di Informatica e Scienze dell'Informazione  
					  Univ. di Genova, Dip. di Ingegneria Elettrica  
					  Univ. di Genova, Inst. per la Matematica Applicata  
					  Univ. di Milano, Dip. di Scienze dell'Informazione  
					  Univ. di Padova, Dip. di Architettura, Urbanistica e Rilevamento  
					  Univ. di Padova, Dip. di Ingegneria dell'Informazione  
					  Univ. di Palermo, Dip. di Matematica Appl., Lab. for Computer Science  
					  Univ. di Palermo, Facoltà di Economia  
					  Univ. di Pisa, Dip. di Informatica  
					  Univ. di Pisa, Dip. di Matematica  
					  Univ. di Roma &#8220;La Sapienza&#8221;, Dept. of Statistics  
					  Univ. di Roma &#8220;La Sapienza&#8221;, Dip. di Informatica e Sistemistica  
					  Univ. di Roma &#8220;Tor Vergata&#8221;, Dip. di Informatica, Sistemi e Produzione  
					  Univ. di Roma &#8220;Tor Vergata&#8221;, Dip. di Matematica  
					  Univ. di Roma III, Dip. di Informatica e Automazione  
					  Univ. di Salerno, Dip. di Informatica ed Applicazioni &#8220;Renato M. Capocelli&#8221;  
					  Univ. di Siena, Dip. di Ingegneria dell'Informazione  
					  Univ. di Siena, Dip. di Matematica  
					  Univ. di Trento, Dip. di Matematica  
					  Univ. do Algarve, Dep. Eng. Civil  
					  Univ. do Algarve, Dep. Eng. Electrotécnica  
					  Univ. do Minho, Dep. de Informática  
					  Univ. Dortmund, Fachbereich Informatik  
					  Univ. du Québec, Montréal, Dep. d'Informatique  
					  Univ. Federal de Viçosa, Departamento de Informática  
					  Univ. Hannover, Inst. für Mathematik  
					  Univ. Instelling Antwerpen, Dept. of Mathematics and Computing  
					  Univ. Jaume I, Depto. de Informática  
					  Univ. Kaiserslautern, Fachb. Informatik  
					  Univ. Karlsruhe, Fakultät für Informatik  
					  Univ. Karlsruhe, Inst. für Algorithmen und Kognitive Systeme (IAKS)  
					  Univ. Köln, Angewandte Mathematik und Informatik  
					  Univ. Köln, Inst. für Informatik  
					  Univ. Köln, Mathematisches Inst.  
					  Univ. Köln, Zentrum für Paralleles Rechnen  
					  Univ. Konstanz, Fachb. Informatik &amp; Informationswissenschaft  
					  Univ. Laval, Ctr. for Research in Geomatics (CRG)  
					  Univ. Leipzig, Fak. für Mathematik &amp; Informatik  
					  Univ. Libre de Bruxelles, Computer Science Dept.  
					  Univ. Libre de Bruxelles, Inst. de Recherches Interdisciplinaires et de Développements en Intelligence Artificielle (IRIDIA)  
					  Univ. Mannheim, Dept. of Computer Science IV  
					  Univ. Mannheim, Fak. für Volkwirtschaftslehre  
					  Univ. Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, Inst. de Matemáticas  
					  Univ. of Alberta, Dept. of Computing Science  
					  Univ. of Amsterdam, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Amsterdam, Korteweg-de Vries Inst. for Mathematics  
					  Univ. of Arizona, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Arizona, Dept. of Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering  
					  Univ. of Athens, Dept. of Informatics and Telecommunications  
					  Univ. of Auckland, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Auckland, Dept. of Engineering Science  
					  Univ. of Bath, Dept. of Architecture &amp; Civil Engineering  
					  Univ. of Bergen, Dept. of Informatics  
					  Univ. of Bielefeld, Faculty of Technology  
					  Univ. of British Columbia, Computer Science Dept.  
					  Univ. of British Columbia, Dept. of Mechanical Engineering  
					  Univ. of Calgary, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Calgary, Dept. of Geomatics Engineering  
					  Univ. of Calgary, Dept. of Mathematics &amp; Statistics  
					  Univ. of California, Berkeley, Dept. of Chemistry  
					  Univ. of California, Berkeley, Dept. of Civil Engineering  
					  Univ. of California, Berkeley, Dept. of Electrical Engineering &amp; Computer Science  
					  Univ. of California, Berkeley, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of California, Berkeley, Dept. of Statistics  
					  Univ. of California, Berkeley, Industrial Engineering &amp; Operations Research Dept.  
					  Univ. of California, Berkeley, International Computer Science Inst.  
					  Univ. of California, Davis, Dept. of Civil and Environmental Engineering  
					  Univ. of California, Davis, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of California, Davis, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of California, Irvine, Dept. of Civil and Environmental Engineering  
					  Univ. of California, Irvine, Dept. of Cognitive Science  
					  Univ. of California, Irvine, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of California, Irvine, Dept. of Information and Computer Science  
					  Univ. of California, Irvine, Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  
					  Univ. of California, Los Angeles, Computer Science Dept.  
					  Univ. of California, Los Angeles, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of California, Riverside, Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Engineering  
					  Univ. of California, San Diego, Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Engineering  
					  Univ. of California, San Diego, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of California, Santa Barbara, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of California, Santa Cruz, Computer Science Dept.  
					  Univ. of Campinas, Inst. de Computação  
					  Univ. of Cape Town, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Chicago, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Colorado, Boulder, Dept. of Aerospace Engineering Sciences  
					  Univ. of Colorado, Boulder, Dept. of Applied Mathematics  
					  Univ. of Colorado, Boulder, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Connecticut, Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Engineering  
					  Univ. of Connecticut, Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering  
					  Univ. of Copenhagen, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Cyprus, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Delaware, Dept. of Computer &amp; Information Sciences  
					  Univ. of Denver, Dept. of Mathematics &amp; Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Edinburgh, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Edinburgh, Division of Informatics  
					  Univ. of Florida, Dept. Computer &amp; Information Sci. &amp; Engr.  
					  Univ. of Florida, Dept. Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering  
					  Univ. of Greenwich, School of Computing &amp; Mathematical Sciences  
					  Univ. of Groningen, Dept. of Econometrics  
					  Univ. of Haifa, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Hong Kong, Dept. of Civil &amp; Structural Engineering  
					  Univ. of Hong Kong, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Hong Kong, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of Iceland, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Illinois, Chicago, Dept. Electrical Engineering &amp; Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Illinois, Chicago, Dept. of Mathematics, Statistics, and Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, Beckman Inst. for Advanced Science &amp; Technology  
					  Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, Computational Science &amp; Engineering  
					  Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, Coordinated Science Lab.  
					  Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, Ctr. for Simulation of Advanced Rockets  
					  Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, Dept. of Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering  
					  Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, Nat. Ctr. for Supercomputing Applications  
					  Univ. of Ioannina, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Iowa, Dept. of Management Sciences  
					  Univ. of Jyväskylä, Dept. of Mathematical Information Technology  
					  Univ. of Kaiserslautern, Economy Mathematics  
					  Univ. of Kassel  
					  Univ. of Kent at Canterbury, Computing Laboratory  
					  Univ. of Kentucky, Computer Science Dept.  
					  Univ. of Leeds, School of Computer Studies  
					  Univ. of Lethbridge, Dept. of Mathematics and Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Library &amp; Information Science  
					  Univ. of Liège, École d'Administration des Affaires  
					  Univ. of Liverpool, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Manitoba, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Maryland, Baltimore County, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Maryland, College Park, Ctr. for Automation Research  
					  Univ. of Maryland, College Park, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Maryland, College Park, Dept. of Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering  
					  Univ. of Maryland, College Park, Dept. of Electrical Engineering  
					  Univ. of Maryland, College Park, Inst. for Advanced Computer Studies  
					  Univ. of Massachusetts, Amherst, Computer Science Dept.  
					  Univ. of Massachusetts, Amherst, Dept. of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering  
					  Univ. of Massachusetts, Amherst, Mechanical &amp; Industrial Engineering Dept.  
					  Univ. of Melbourne, Dept. of Geomatics  
					  Univ. of Melbourne, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of Memphis, Dept. of Mathematical Sciences  
					  Univ. of Miami, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Michigan, Communications &amp; Signal Processing Lab.  
					  Univ. of Michigan, Ctr. for the Study of Complex Systems  
					  Univ. of Michigan, Dept. of Elect. Engr. and Comp. Sci.  
					  Univ. of Minnesota, Army High Performance Computing Research Center  
					  Univ. of Minnesota, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Minnesota, School of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of Nevada, Los Vegas, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of New Brunswick, Faculty of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of New England, Dept. of Mathematics, Statistics, &amp; Computing Science  
					  Univ. of New Hampshire, Computer Science Dept.  
					  Univ. of New Haven, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of New Mexico  
					  Univ. of New Mexico, Albuquerque High Performance Computing Center  
					  Univ. of New Mexico, Dept. of Civil Engineering  
					  Univ. of New Mexico, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of New Mexico, Dept. of Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering  
					  Univ. of New South Wales, School of Computer Science &amp; Engineering  
					  Univ. of Newcastle, Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Software Engineering  
					  Univ. of Newcastle, Dept. of Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering  
					  Univ. of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, Dept. of Operations Research  
					  Univ. of North Texas, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Notre Dame, Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Engineering  
					  Univ. of Novi Sad, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of Otago, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Ottawa, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Paderborn, Center for Parallel Computing  
					  Univ. of Paderborn, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Patras, Computer Engineering and Informatics Dept.  
					  Univ. of Pennsylvania, Dept. of Computer and Information Science  
					  Univ. of Pennsylvania, Dept. of Radiology  
					  Univ. of Pennsylvania, School of Medecine &amp; Dept. of Bioengineering  
					  Univ. of Pennsylvania, Wharton School of Business  
					  Univ. of Pittsburgh, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of Queensland, Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering  
					  Univ. of Rhode Island, Dept. of Computer Science and Statistics  
					  Univ. of Rochester, Dept. of Biology  
					  Univ. of Rochester, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Saskatchewan, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Sheffield, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of South Australia, Inst. for Telecommunications Research  
					  Univ. of South Carolina, Dept. of Mechanical Engineering  
					  Univ. of Southampton, School of Electronics &amp; Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Southern California, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Southern California, Dept. of Electrical Engineering  
					  Univ. of Southern California, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of Southern California, Information Sciences Inst.  
					  Univ. of St. Andrews, School of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Surrey, Dept. of Electronic Engineering  
					  Univ. of Sydney, Australian Ctr. for Field Robotics  
					  Univ. of Sydney, Basser Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Szeged, Dept. of Informatics  
					  Univ. of Tampere, Dept. of Computer Sciences  
					  Univ. of Tasmania, School of Computing  
					  Univ. of Tennessee, Knoxville, Computer Science Dept.  
					  Univ. of Texas, Austin, Dept. of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics  
					  Univ. of Texas, Austin, Dept. of Computer Sciences  
					  Univ. of Texas, Austin, Inst. for Computational Engineering and Sciences  
					  Univ. of Texas, Dallas, Computer Science Program  
					  Univ. of Texas, Pan American, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of the Phillippines, Los Baños, Inst. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Thessaloniki, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering  
					  Univ. of Thessaly, Dept. of Computer Engineering and Telecommunication  
					  Univ. of Timisoara, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of Tokyo, Dept. of Information Science  
					  Univ. of Tokyo, Dept. of Mathematical Engineering and Information Physics  
					  Univ. of Tokyo, Dept. of Urban Engineering  
					  Univ. of Tokyo, Inst. of Medical Science, Human Genome Center  
					  Univ. of Toronto, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Trento, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of Utah, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Utah, Nora Eccles Harrison Cardiovascular Research and Training Inst.  
					  Univ. of Vermont, Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Electrical Engineering  
					  Univ. of Versailles Saint-Quentin, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Victoria, Computer Science Dept.  
					  Univ. of Victoria, Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering  
					  Univ. of Virginia, Dept. of Biochemistry  
					  Univ. of Virginia, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Warwick, Dept. Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Washington, Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Engineering  
					  Univ. of Washington, Dept. of Electrical Engineering  
					  Univ. of Washington, Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Univ. of Waterloo, Dept. of Combinatorics &amp; Optimization  
					  Univ. of Waterloo, School of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of West Bohemia Press  
					  Univ. of West Bohemia, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Western Australia, Dept. of Electrical &amp; Electronic Engineering  
					  Univ. of Wisconsin, Madison, Computer Sciences Dept.  
					  Univ. of Wisconsin, Madison, Physics Dept.  
					  Univ. of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Dept. of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science  
					  Univ. Osnabrück, Fachb. Mathematik / Informatik  
					  Univ. Osnabrück, Physikalische Chemie  
					  Univ. Paris 8, Lab. d'Intelligence Artificielle  
					  Univ. Paris VII  
					  Univ. Passau, Fak. für Mathematik und Informatik  
					  Univ. Pierre et Marie Curie, Lab. d&#8217;Informatique de Paris 6 &#8211; CNRS  
					  Univ. Politècnica de Catalunya, Dep. de Automatización Avanzada y Robótica  
					  Univ. Politècnica de Catalunya, Dep. de Llenguatges i Sistemes Informàtics  
					  Univ. Politècnica de Catalunya, Dep. de Matemàtica Aplicada II  
					  Univ. Politècnica de Catalunya, Dep. de Matemàtica Aplicada IV  
					  Univ. Politècnica de Madrid, Dept. Matemática Aplicada  
					  Univ. Politècnica de Valencia, Dep. de Sistemas Informáticos y Computación  
					  Univ. Québec, Hull, Dép. d'Informatique  
					  Univ. Regensburg, Naturwissenschaftlichen Fakultät II, Physik  
					  Univ. Salzburg, Inst. für Computerwissenschaften  
					  Univ. Ulm, Fakultät für Informatik  
					  Univ. Ulm, Forschungsinstitut für Anwendungsorientierte Wissensverarbeitung (FAW)  
					  Univ. Utrecht, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Univ. v Ljubljani, Fak. za matematiko in fiziko  
					  Univ. Warsaw, Inst. Informatyki  
					  Univ. Würzburg, Lehrstuhl für Informatik I  
					  Univ. Zürich, Mathematisch-naturwissenschaftlichen Fak.  
					  Universal Academy Press  
					  University College London, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  University College London, Dept. of Electronic and Electrical Engineering  
					  Ural State Univ., Dept. of Mathematics &amp; Mechanics  
					  US Naval Research Lab.  
					  Victoria Univ., Wellington, School of Mathematical &amp; Computing Sciences  
					  Villanova Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Virginia Polytechnic Inst., Bradley Dept. of Electrical Engineering  
					  W. H. Freeman  
					  Warsaw Univ., Inst. of Informatics  
					  Waseda Univ., Graduate School of Science &amp; Engineering  
					  Washington Univ., St. Louis  
					  Washington Univ., St. Louis, Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering  
					  Washington Univ., St. Louis, School of Medicine  
					  Wayne State Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Weierstraß-Inst. für Angewandte Analysis und Stochastik  
					  Wellesley College, Computer Science Dept.  
					  West Virginia Univ., Dept. of Computer Science &amp; Electrical Engineering  
					  Wichmann  
					  Wichmann Verlag  
					  Wilfrid Laurier Univ., Dept. of Mathematics  
					  Wilfrid Laurier Univ., Dept. of Physics &amp; Computing  
					  Williams College, Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Winphoria Networks  
					  Worcester Polytechnic Inst., Computer Science Dept.  
					  World Scientific  
					  Wroclaw Univ., Inst. of Computer Science  
					  Xerox Corp.  
					  Xerox Palo Alto Research Center  
					  Xi'an Jiaotong Univ., School of Management  
					  Yale Univ., Ctr. for Medical Informatics  
					  Yale Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Yale Univ., Dept. of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science  
					  Yokohama  
					  York Univ., Dept. of Computer Science  
					  Západoceské Univ. v Plzni, Katedre Informatiky a Vy'pocetní Techniky  
					  {\TeX} Users' Group  
				 

				 
					[ D. Eppstein publications ]
					[ Citation database ]
				 
			 

			 
				 Fano  Experimental Web Server,
				 D. Eppstein ,
				 School of Information &amp; Computer Science ,
				 UC Irvine 
			 

			   
			   
		 
	</body>
 
