  CompSci 260: Fundamentals of the Design and Analysis of Algorithms<body>
 

 CompSci 260: Fundamentals of the Design and Analysis of Algorithms 

    Class Meetings  (Fall 2016)
        Lecture :   Tu Th 9:30-10:50am in ICS 180


       
       Instructor 
       Professor Dan Hirschberg  —   dan  (at)  ics.uci.edu  
                office hours by appointment in DBH 4226

         Teaching Assistant :     
this class has not been assigned any teaching assistant

       
       Prerequisites 
       An undergraduate algorithms course
       
       Add/Drop Policy 
       No adds or drops allowed after the second week of classes
       
       Textbook 
        Required:  Kleinberg and Tardos,
            Algorithm Design ,
           Addison Wesley, 2006
         The course will cover the first eight chapters of this book

       
       List of Topics 
         The following schedule is approximate
            and may change over the course of the quarter.
        Week 0:  Introduction. The Stable marriage problem. [KT Chapter 1]
          Week 1:  Basics of Algorithm Analysis. [KT Chapter 2]
          Weeks 2-3:  Basics of Graph Algorithms. [KT Chapter 3]
        Week 3: First midterm examination covers chapters 1-3 

          Weeks 4-5:  Greedy Algorithms. Shortest Paths. Minimum Spanning Trees. [KT Chapter 4]
          Week 6:  Divide and Conquer. [KT Sections 5.1-5.6, 13.5]
          Weeks 7-8:  Dynamic Programming. [KT Sections 6.1-6.9]
        Week 8: Second midterm examination covers chapters 4-6 
          Week 9:  Network Flow. [KT Sections 7.1-7.7]
          Week 10:  NP-completeness. [KT Sections 8.1-8.5]
        Week 11: Comprehensive final examination on Thursday, December 8 (8am) 
       
       Notes  — password-protected
     
         user name  is your UCI ID name in ALL CAPS
          password  is your 8-character student number
         AccessUCI students passwords begin with the character  X 
          
            Students are responsible for all material covered
            in lecture and the relevant portions of the
            textbook, even if it does not appear in the lecture notes
        Lecture Slides 

         A paper relevant to NP-completeness:
          Tutorial on Computational Complexity 
       
       Requirements 
         Homework assignments  
         Two midterms
         Final examination
       
        Homework and Exam Schedule  
 
       Masters Comprehensive Exam 
       This course may be used as part of the Comprehensive Exam in the
          computer science masters program.  To pass the Comprehensive Exam,
          students must obtain an A -  or better on the 260 Final Exam.
         Students who wish to take the Comprehensive Exam but
          are not enrolled in the course should contact me by email before
          the end of week 2 of the quarter to reserve a seat in the exam.
          Include your full name, UCI Student ID #,
          and which quarter you were previously enrolled in CompSci 260.
          Send the request from your UCI email account (to prevent identity theft).
          Students without reservations will not be permitted to sit for the exam.
       
        Discussion Board  
     Students can discuss matters related to this course on  Piazza 
     
       Academic Dishonesty 
    Instances of academic dishonesty will be reflected
           in the final grade (usually an F) because dishonesty devalues
           the learning experience for the whole class.
           Additional consequences may occur at the campus level.
         Examples of academic dishonesty include, but are not limited to:
             copying from others during an examination
               allowing another student to copy from your work
               communicating exam answers to other students during an examination
               using unauthorized materials during an examination
               tampering with an examination after it has been corrected and then returning it for more credit
               For more complete information about academic honesty policies,
           consult the
            Academic Senate Policy on Academic Integrity 

       
       Communication 
        If you send me email with course-related questions:
	   include the string "CompSci 260" at the start of the subject line
	     include your name and UCI Student ID number in the message
	     if you are not writing from your official UCI email address,
	       please cc your official UCI email address
	    (This protocol enables me to weed out requests for help
              on problems from non-UCI students)
   
  Last modified: Nov  1, 2016 
</body> 