 Virtual Collaboration Portal 


    

     
     

       
         
           Virtual Collaboration Portal            

                     Home  
  Groups  
  Collaborators  
   

               
           
  
   
  Search this site:  
  
 

 
            

   Navigation 

      Bibliography    Authors  
  Keywords  
  
  Reading Lists  
  Web Links  
  Gallery  
  Recent posts  
  Acknowledgements  
  
 
 

   User login 

   
  
  Username:  *  
  
 
  Password:  *  
  
    Request new password  
   
 
 
         
      
          
            Home  ›  Bibliography                                                                                   
             
    
  
  
       
         
      
   
                  
 
  Alspaugh TA ,  Asuncion HU ,  Scacchi W .    Software Licenses, Open Source Components, and Open Architectures  . In:  Mistrík I ,  Tang A ,  Bahsoon R ,  Stafford JA , editors. Aligning Enterprise, System, and Software Architectures.; In Press.  
   
   
   
   
      
   
                  
 
  Scacchi W .    Emerging Patterns of Intersection and Segmentation when Computerization Movements Interact  . In:  Kraemer KL ,  Elliott M , editors. Computerization Movements and Technology Diffusion: From Mainframes to Ubiquitous Computing.  Information Today, Inc.; In Press.  
   
   
   
   
      
   
                  
 
  Scacchi W .    Free/Open Source Software Development  . In: Encyclopedia of Software Engineering. Phillip A. Laplante (editor) ed. New York: Taylor &amp; Francis; In Press.  
   
   
   
   
      
   
                  
 
  Alspaugh TA ,  Asuncion HU ,  Scacchi W .    The Challenge of Heterogeneously Licensed Systems in Open Architecture Software Ecosystems  . In:  Jansen S ,  Brinkkemper S ,  Cusumano M , editors. Software Ecosystems: Analyzing and Managing Business Networks in the Software Industry. Edward Elgar Publishing; In Press.  
   
   
   
   
      
   
                  
 
  Scacchi W ,  Alspaugh T .    Advances in the Acquisition of Secure Systems Based on Open Architectures  . Journal of Software Technology. In Press.  
   
   
   
   
      
   
                  
 
  Alspaugh TA ,  Scacchi W ,  Kawai R .    Software Licenses, Coverage, and Subsumption.  . In: Fifth International Workshop on Requirements Engineering and Law (RELAW 2012). Chicago, IL; 2012.  
   
   
   
   
      
   
                  
 
  Scacchi W ,  Alspaugh T .    Designing Secure Systems Based on Open Architectures with Open Source and Closed Source Components  . In: The 8th International Conference on Open Source Systems: Long-term Sustainability (OSS 2012). Hammamet, Tunisia; 2012.  
   
   
   
   
      
   
                  
 
  Alspaugh TA ,  Scacchi W .    Licensing Security. Position paper  . In:  Fifth International Workshop on Requirements Engineering and Law (RELAW 2012). Chicago, IL; 2012.  
   
   
   
   
      
   
                  
 
  Scacchi W ,  Brown C ,  Nies K .    Exploring the Potential of Virtual Worlds for Decentralized Command and Control  . In: Intern. Command and Control Research and Technology Symposium (ICCRTS). Fairfax, VA; 2012. Paper 096.  
   
   
   
   
      
   
                  
 
  Scacchi W ,  Alspaugh TA .    Addressing challenges in the acquisition of secure software systems with open architectures  . In: 9th Annual Acquisition Research Symposium.  To be republished in the DOD Journal of Software Technology. Seaside, CA; 2012.  
   
   
   
     
  
         1 
  2  
  3  
  4  
  5  
  6  
  7  
  8  
  9  
 … 
  next ›  
  last »  
    
  
  
  
  
             
                      
           

      
      
   


  </body> 