 ScenarioML — Thomas A. Alspaugh<body>

 

 


 
        
         
        



 



 



 ScenarioML 
 
ScenarioML is a language for modelling scenarios. 
It provides syntax for expressing
the semantic distinctions that are present in scenarios,
and semantics for the things that people
use and respond to consistently in scenarios. 
By providing means for distinguishing
the kinds of things we say in scenarios,
and making explicit the assumed semantics in informal scenarios,
it forms an effective, flexible, and extensible basis
for recording and working with scenarios. 
The scenarios can then be translated into other forms,
used as part of other applications,
transformed into HTML for presentation in a web browser
or into 
 L  A  T  E X
 for presentation on the printed page,
and analyzed, refactored, and manipulated using Java tools. 
 
 
Publications: 
 
   Thomas A. Alspaugh, Susan Elliott Sim, Kristina Winbladh,
    Mamadou Diallo, Hadar Ziv, and Debra J. Richardson. 
    The Importance of Clarity in Usable Requirements Specification Formats. 
     CERE'07,  October 2007. 
   

    Kristina Winbladh, Thomas A. Alspaugh, Hadar Ziv, and Debra J. Richardson. 
    An Automated Approach for Goal-driven, Specification-based Testing. 
     ASE'06, 
    September 2006. 
   

    Thomas A. Alspaugh, Eric Baumer, and Bill Tomlinson. 
    On a Mixed-Methods Evaluation of a Social-Agent Scenario Visualization. 
     CERE'06, 
    September 2006. 
   

    Thomas A. Alspaugh, Bill Tomlinson, and Eric Baumer. 
    Using Social Agents to Visualize Software Scenarios. 
     SOFTVIS'06, 
    September 2006. 
   

    Eric Baumer, Bill Tomlinson, Man Lok Yau, and Thomas Alspaugh. 
    Normative Echoes: use and manipulation of player generated content
    by communities of NPCs. 
     AIIDE 2006, 
    June 2006. 
   

  Scenario Workbench 
 
The Scenario Workbench
is the culmination (to date) of
a group of languages, tools, and techniques
for working effectively with scenarios written in ScenarioML:
 
    The Scenario Workbench ,
    an Eclipse plugin under development
    (primarily by Ph.D. student
     Mamadou Diallo )
    and supported by an IBM Eclipse Innovation Award. 
   

    A Java package  scenario 
    for representing ScenarioML scenarios as Java objects,
    operating on them,
    and
    translating to/from their several representations. 
   

   
    ScenarioGraph,
    a Java tool
    written by Ph.D. student
     Mamadou Diallo ,
    for editing and analyzing graphs of events. 
   

    GoalML,
    an XML language developed by
    Ph.D. student  Kristina Winbladh 
    for goal-driven specification based testing,
    and several Java tools supporting it. 
   

    A special-purpose Java package
    used by collaborator  Bill Tomlinson 
    and his students. 
   

  
The goals of the Scenario Workbench are:
 
   to help people to do the things they currently do with scenarios,
    but more easily, with higher quality, and more effectively;
   

    to extend the things people do with scenarios,
    by opening new possibilities
    that were too difficult, error-prone, tedious, or time-consuming
    to do before;
    and
   

    to provide software tools to support these tasks. 
   

  

 

 
 
     
      
 
 2009Sep22Tu17:25 
 
 Thomas A. Alspaugh 
  alspaugh 
     at  · ics · uci · edu 
      
 
 


</body> 