 Deliverable 1: Prospectus<body>

 
 
Prospectus  
As has been discussed in class, you have substantial flexibility in choosing
the specific form for the content of your deliverables. Below is a list
of items that should be included in your first deliverable.
   
Due Date 
January 21 1999, Thursday, in class
   
Objectives 
The purpose of this document is to convince your customer (and since you
are at school, your instructor) that you have a good understanding of what
the project is all about and that your team is qualified to do this project.
   
Understanding 
One of your major tasks for the current period of time is developing an
understanding of the various technologies and tasks concerned with your
project. This includes the tools and techniques that you will use in accomplishing
your task as well as the technologies that you will be extending, enhancing,
or changing.

 In this deliverable you should reflect your newly gained understanding
by writing an introduction to your project that highlights its various
important aspects. You should also include a description of activities
done in support of developing understanding - like interviews with the
customer, for example. (One of the best ways, of course, to gain an understanding
of a piece of software is to interview the original developer.)
    
Technical Marketing Sheet 
Include a one or two page technical marketing sheet (a bit more technical
than a "sales brochure") suitable for describing your product to a technically
literate outside audience. This document should be successful in reflecting
that you really understand what problem is being solved and can articulate
how your product will add value.
   
Project Plan 
Use the outline below in presenting your project plan.
  
Introduction 

  
Scope and Purpose of Document (overview) 

 
Project Summary 

  
Objectives 

 
Major Activities 

 
Management and Technical Constraints 
   
Project Risks 

  
Risk Analysis 

  
Identification (what is the risk?) 

 
Risk Estimation (how big a consequence would it have?) 

 
Evaluation (how likely is it to occur?) 
  
Risk Management 

  
Risk Aversion Options (what can you do to avoid it?) 

 
Risk Monitoring Procedures (how do you keep track of whether it is going
to occur?) 
   
Schedule 

  
Project Work Breakdown Structure 

 
Task Network (include more detail than just your major deliverables) 

 
Time-Line Chart (when are you going to deliver your various work products?) 

 
Resource Table (how is each team member going to be applied throughout
the weeks of the project?) 


 (You could use a tool like Microsoft Project to help you with parts
of this task.)   
Project Estimates 

  
Historical Data used for the Estimates (personal data? team data? application-domain
data (from other projects?)) 

 
Estimation Techniques 

 
Estimates (how long is each sub-task going to take?) 
  
Project Resources 

   
People (who is on the team?) 

 
Hardware and Software 

 
Special Resources 
  
Staff Organization 

  
Team Structure (what is the team's organizational structure? How are management
tasks carried out? Who reports to whom? Do team members have specific technology-area
responsibilities?) 
  
Tracking and Control Mechanisms 


 (How are you going to keep track of where you are at? How are you going
to control your deliverables? (I.e. document management, version control,
configuration control)
  
Appendices (if needed) 


</body> 