 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  March 30,  2016
</strong>
 
     UCI News 
      
         Taking gaming to a new level</strong>
           By Laura Rico</strong>
                    Kathy Chiang wears her love of gaming on her sleeve. Or wrists, actually. She often sports rubber bracelets inscribed with the logos of her favorite computer games, including League of Legends. A recent University of California, Irvine graduate, Chiang served as president of the campus’s Association of Gamers during her last year at the university. She also designed video games as part of her major, computer game science. So it should come as no surprise that Chiang is an enthusiastic supporter of UCI’s new  eSports  initiative, which encompasses an official League of Legends team, a state-of-the-art gaming arena and a scholarship program for team members. 

 “Online and role-playing games allow you to get immersed in fantasy worlds and the lives of the characters you’re playing,” Chiang says. “It’s like literature, except you have a say in what happens. The possibilities seem limitless. Strategy games can be as satisfying as playing sports, and the teamwork aspect is similar.” 
 The gaming world can be a bit of a boys club, and female gamers have been targets of harassment and bullying. At UCI, though, they’ve found a strong support network. 
 “At the collegiate level – and especially at UCI – you do see more girls in gaming, and women are involved in leadership positions with campus gaming clubs,” Chiang says. “There’s something about UCI that enables girls to do more with gaming, whether as players or designers and developers of games.” 
 Chiang is part of a diverse community of gamers who have advised UCI administrators on the development of the eSports initiative, an effort led by Mark Deppe, assistant director of events &amp; student programming. 
 “We hope to attract the best gamers with scholarships and an elite training facility,” Deppe says. “UCI already has a highly regarded computer game science major, and it can truly be a school of first choice for students interested in gaming and technology.” 
 He surveyed 1,200 students on campus and found that 74 percent identified as gamers. The figure doesn’t surprise Jesse Wang, president of The Association of Gamers. 
 “Most gamers I know also study a lot,” he says. “In a traditional university setting, some of these students might feel like they don’t fit in. UCI is very gaming- and STEM-friendly and has a home for gamers. If you come here, gaming can be a big part of your academic and social life.” 
 Video games have come a long way since the days of Pac-Man and Super Mario Bros. About 70 percent of Americans between the ages of 8 and 64 say they play video games. And more people play and watch e-sports – competitive multiplayer online games – than watch the NBA finals, World Series or college football playoffs. 
  Morgan Romine , a Ph.D. candidate in anthropology at UCI, knows a bit about how the love of gaming can straddle academic and personal lives. Her dissertation is on the ethnography of video game design. 
 She conducted her fieldwork in a local game design studio and discovered that employees saw their jobs as both a calling and a labor of love. 
 “What’s noteworthy is that designers are almost always themselves really dedicated gamers and passionate about gaming as a lifestyle,” she says. “You can’t say the same about designers in other fields.” 
 A longtime champion of diversity and inclusion in e-sports, Romine was named one of 2009’s  Most Influential Women in Tech  by  Fast Company  and is the former captain and co-founder of the Frag Dolls, the first all-women e-sports team to win a professional gaming tournament. 
 Collegiate teams are catalysts for diversifying the sport, she says: “The great thing about them – and UCI eSports – is that they provide the opportunity to build and support women at the amateur level. It’s purely a numbers thing. Only about 5 percent of pro players are women, so you aren’t seeing them in the top 10. When you build a groundswell at the college level, you’ll see more women advance in the sport.” 
 UCI’s gaming arena and League of Legends team are set to debut this fall. 

 
-- Laura Rico

  
(Reprinted courtesy of  UCI News )



   Taking gaming to a new level    
                &lt; Previous 
                 UCI to launch first-of-its-kind official e-sports initiative in the fall





              
                Next &gt; 
                 Two Statistics Ph.D. students receive honorable mentions in NSF GRFP
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 