 undergraduate course listing @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>

 This site will look much better in a browser that supports  web standards , but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device. 
   

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










      Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  Courses  
    
  
 
 

      





 
     

        Course Listing for 2016-17
     
     

                  Note:   This is a TENTATIVE schedule.  The course listings shown here are 
        neither guaranteed, nor considered "final". Department Chairs may provide updated 
        information regarding course offerings or faculty assignments throughout the year. 
        Be sure to check this list regularly for new or revised information.   


        
        
          Filters 
         
         Year: 
         Level: 
         Department: 
         
         
         Core Classes for: 
         
         



        
     
     

                      Course  
                      Title  
                      description  
                      Fall 2016  
                      Winter 2017   
                      Spring 2017   
                      Summer 2017   
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                     
                STATS 200A             
             
                  STATS 200A 
             
             
                   Basics of probability theory, random variables and basic transformations, univariate distributions - discrete and continuous, multivariate distributions.  Prerequisites: Statistics 120A-B-C or equivalent or consent of instructor.             
                          Yaming Yu     
               
               
               
           
                STATS 200B             
             
                  STATS 200B 
             
             
                   Random samples, transformations, limit laws, normal distribution theory, introduction to stochastic processes, data reduction, point estimation (maximum likelihood).  Prerequisites: Statistics 120A-B-C or equivalent or consent of instructor.             
                           
              Babak Shahbaba     
               
               
           
                STATS 200C             
             
                  STATS 200C 
             
             
                   Interval estimation, hypothesis testing, decision theory and Bayesian inference, basic linear model theory.  Prerequisites: Statistics 120A-B-C or equivalent or consent of instructor.             
                           
               
              Zhaoxia Yu     
               
           
                STATS 201             
             
                  STATS 201 
             
             
                   Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing data from experiments and surveys. Methods covered include two-sample procedures, analysis of variance, simple and multiple linear regression. May not be taken for graduate credit by Statistics graduate students. Prerequisite: knowledge of basic statistics (at level of Statistics 7). Concurrent with Statistics 110.             
                          Tsung-Hua Lin     
               
               
               
           
                STATS 202             
             
                  STATS 202 
             
             
                   Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing data from surveys or experiments. Emphasizes application and understanding of methods for categorical data including contingency tables, logistic and Poisson regression, loglinear models. May not be taken for graduate credit by Statistics graduate students. Prerequisite: Statistics 201 or equivalent. Concurrent with Statistics 111.             
                           
              Sevan Gregory Gulesserian    Hernando  Ombao     
               
               
           
                STATS 203             
             
                  STATS 203 
             
             
                   Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing longitudinal data from experiments and cohort studies. Topics covered include survival methods for censored time-to-event data, linear mixed models, non-linear mixed effects models, and generalized estimating equations. May not be taken for graduate credit by Statistics graduate students. Prerequisite: Statistics 202 or equivalent. Concurrent with Statistics 112.             
                           
               
               TBD     
               
           
                STATS 205             
             
                  STATS 205 
             
             
                   Basic Bayesian concepts and methods with emphasis on data analysis. Special emphasis on specification of prior distributions. Development for one-two samples and on to binary, Poisson, and linear regression. Analyses performed using free OpenBugs software.             
                           
              Michele Guindani     TBD     
               
               
           
                STATS 210             
             
                  STATS 210 
             
             
                   Statistical methods for analyzing data from surveys and experiments. Topics include randomization and model-based inference, two-sample methods, analysis of variance, linear regression and model diagnostics. Prerequisite: knowledge of basic statistics (at the level of Statistics 7), calculus, linear algebra.             
                          Hernando  Ombao     
               
               
               
           
                STATS 211             
             
                  STATS 211 
             
             
                   Development of the theory and application of generalized linear models. Topics include likelihood estimation and asymptotic distributional theory for exponential families, quasi-likelihood and mixed model development. Emphasizes methodological development and application to real scientific problems.             
                           
              Daniel Gillen     
               
               
           
                STATS 212             
             
                  STATS 212 
             
             
                   Development and application of statistical methods for analyzing corrected data. Topics covered include repeated measures ANOVA, linear mixed models, non-linear mixed effects models, and generalized estimating equations. Emphasizes both theoretical development and application of the presented methodology.             
                           
               
              Daniel Gillen     
               
           
                STATS 220A             
             
                  STATS 220A 
             
             
                   Advanced topics in probability and statistical inference including measure theoretic probability, large sample theory, decision theory, resampling and Monte Carlo methods, nonparametric methods. Prerequisites: Statistics 200A-B-C.             
                           
              Weining Shen     
               
               
           
                STATS 220B             
             
                  STATS 220B 
             
             
                   Advanced topics in probability and statistical inference including measure theoretic probability, large sample theory, decision theory, resampling and Monte Carlo methods, nonparametric methods. Prerequisites: Statistics 200A-B-C.             
                           
               
              Weining Shen     
               
           
                STATS 225             
             
                  STATS 225 
             
             
                   Introduction to the Bayesian approach to statistical inference. Topics include univariate and multivariate models, choice of prior distributions, hierarchical models, computation including Markov chain Monte Carlo, model checking, and model selection. Prerequisites: two quarters of upper-division or graduate training in probability and statistics, or consent of instructor.             
                           
               
              Yaming Yu     
               
           
                STATS 230             
             
                  STATS 230 
             
             
                   Numerical computations and algorithms with applications in statistics. Topics include optimization methods including the EM algorithm, random number generation and simulation, Markov chain simulation tools, and numerical integration. Prerequisites: two quarters of upper-division or graduate training in probability and statistics. Statistics 230 and CS 206 may not both be taken for credit.             
                           
              Babak Shahbaba     
               
               
           
                STATS 240             
             
                  STATS 240 
             
             
                   Theory and application of multivariate statistical methods. Topics include: likelihood and Bayesian inference for the multivariate normal model, visualization of multivariate data, data reduction techniques, cluster analysis, and multivariate statistical models. Prerequisites: Statistics 200A-B-C and Mathematics 121A.             
                          Zhaoxia Yu     
               
               
               
           
                STATS 245             
             
                  STATS 245 
             
             
                   Statistical models for analysis of time series from time and frequency domain perspectives. Emphasizes theory and application of time series data analysis methods. Topics include ARMA/ARIMA models, model identification and estimation, linear operators, Fourier analysis, spectral estimation, state space models, Kalman filter. Prerequisites: Statistics 200A-B-C.             
                           
              Michele Guindani     
               
               
           
                STATS 250             
             
                  STATS 250 
             
             
                   Statistical methods commonly used to analyze data arising from clinical studies. Topics include analysis of observational studies and randomized clinical trials, techniques in the analysis of survival and longitudinal data, approaches to handling missing data, meta-analysis, nonparametric methods. Prerequisite: Statistics 210.             
                           
               
              Tsung-Hua Lin     
               
           
                STATS 275             
             
                  STATS 275 
             
             
                   Training in collaborative research and practical application of statistics. Emphasis on effective communication as it relates to identifying scientific objectives, formulating a statistical analysis plan, choice of statistical methods, and interpretation of results and their limitations to non-statisticians.              
                          Hernando  Ombao     
               
               
               
           
                STATS 280             
             
                  STATS 280 
             
             
                   Periodic seminar series covering topics of current research in statistics and its application. Prerequisites: graduate standing and consent of instructor. Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary.              
                          Hernando  Ombao     
              Babak Shahbaba     
              Yaming Yu     
               
            


    
    
 

 
 
 
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 

</body> 