  ICS Department News Page <body>

 
      


 
 
          

	

	Volume: 1   Issue: 3  

	 

	 

	

	Fall 1997 

	 
	     
     
 
	

	   
	 
	   Table of Contents 
	   
	
Four NSF CAREER awards granted to ICS junior faculty
	 

	   
	
ICS Tops UCI Incoming Class

	 

	   
	
Biomedical Computing Grants for ICS
	 

	   
	
Best Paper award to ICS researcher 
	 

	   
	
Appointments and Honors
	 





	   Previous Issues 
	   
	   




	  
	 
	
	
Four NSF CAREER awards granted to ICS junior faculty
	
	 
	 
	 

	
Four faculty members in the ICS department have each been
individually awarded
prestigious National Science  Foundation
(NSF) CAREER awards in 1997. CAREER awards are
nationally-recognized 4 or 5-year funding awards designed to
support outstanding junior faculty in their fields.
The four faculty members are: 
     
 Professor Mark Ackerman :   Augmenting Expertise Networks  
    
Professor Michael Franz :   Dynamic Optimization of Software Component Systems  
    
Professor David Rosenblum :   Mechanisms for Ensuring the Integrity of Distributed 
Object Systems  
    
Professor Padhraic Smyth :   Probabilistic Data
Mining: An Integrated Approach at the Interface of Computer
Science and Statistics  .
  
In addition,
 
Professor Rajesh Gupta  
and
 
Professor David Redmiles   also received NSF CAREER awards in recent
years, and thus, each of the 6 of the assistant professors in the
ICS department have received this prestigious award.



	 
	   

	  
	 
	
ICS Tops UCI Incoming Class

	 
	 
	 

	

 ICS continues to attract the best students according to information about
 this fall's incoming freshman class.  The average SAT score for incoming
 ICS majors is 1216, an increase from last year's average of 1167.  Last
 year's ICS average was the highest at UCI, so this year's increase makes it
 likely that ICS will repeat that distinction.  The average GPA for these
 students is an impressive 3.83, an increase from last year's 3.61.
 The average SAT score of ICS freshman has increased steadily over the last
 few years: 1019 ('94),
      1052 ('95),
      1167 ('96),
      1216 ('97),
  
ICS Chair
 
Mike Pazzani  
attributes these outstanding numbers to a number
 of factors, including an increase in the number of freshman applications
 received, scholarship funds provided by ICS alumni, the freshman honors
 program, high school recruiting, and other efforts to attract strong
 students to ICS.



	  
	   



	  
	 
	
Biomedical Computing Grants for ICS

	 
	 
	 

	
 
Professor Lubomir Bic  , leading a team of faculty
colleagues in  ICS and other  departments on campus, has been
awarded 2 significant grants in biomedical computing.
The first is a
GAANN award, Graduate Assistantships in Areas of National Need.
This grant has been awarded by the US Department of Education
and will provide Fellowships for students interested or pursuing
research in Biomedical Computing. Specifically, the following areas
will be addressed: 
    Knowledge Discovery in Clinical Databases
   Computational Neuroscience
   Physiological Simulations
   Protein Structure Prediction
   Medical Image Processing
  
The grant provides funding of almost one million dollars, which will
support ten PhD students over a period of 3 years.

 

The second grant is an
NSF CISE Instrumentation Grant.
This grant has been awarded by the National Science Foundation and
will fund the establishment of a distributed computing laboratory
dedicated to Biomedical Computing. In its full configuration, this
will consist of approximately 20 Sun SparcStations interconnected by a
100 megabit/sec communication network and will be housed in IERF and
CSE buildings.




	  
	   



	  
	 
	
Best Paper award to ICS researcher

	 
	 
	 

	
 
Professor Padhraic Smyth  , with co-authors Professor Michael
Ghil and Dr. Kayo Ide (Department of Atmsospheric Sciences,
UCLA), Professor Andy Fraser (Systems Science, Portland State
University) and Joe Roden (JPL), received the best paper
award for applied research at the recent Third
International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and
Data Mining, August 1997, Newport Beach, CA.
The paper describes the application of probabilistic
clustering models to observational data from the Earth's
upper atmosphere. A key contribution of the work was the
objective confirmation by the models that upper atmosphere
low-frequency dynamics can be characterized by variability
associatd with three fundamental
spatial patterns (or "regimes"). The confirmation of three
regimes (which had been hypothesized in prior work) is
expected to lead to advances in predictive models of
upper atmosphere dynamics.

	  
	   



	  
	 
	
Appointments and Honors

	 
	 
	 

	
     
 Professor Jonathan Grudin  
was appointed Editor-In-Chief of ACM Transactions
on Computer-Human Interaction, and is also Co-Chairing CSCW'98, 
the seventh
 
ACM conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work  .
    
 Professor Richard  Taylor   was elected Senior Member
of the Association of Computing Machinery (ACM).
    
 Professor Nik Dutt   was
 elected Vice-Chair of ACM SIGDA in July.
    
 Professor Rick Lathrop   was appointed to the
Scientific Advisory Board of Combichem, Inc.
    
Professor Padhraic Smyth  
 gave an invited plenary talk 
on Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  to
a joint session of the   National Conference on Artificial
Intelligence   in July.
   
	   











	 
	 
	
	Previous Issues

	 
	 
	  

	       January 1997 Issue
             Spring 1997 Issue
	      
	   
    
Editor: Padhraic Smyth    Information and Computer Science    University of California, Irvine,   
Irvine, CA 92697-3425  
Phone: (714) 824-7403  
Fax: (714) 824-4056 
 
 
   
</body> 