 Geometry in Action: CAD<body>

 
 
  
 
  
  Computer Aided Design 

 
Related areas:
 computer graphics ,
 computer aided manufacturing ,
 solid modeling ,
 constraing solving ,
 architecture ,
 VLSI design .
      Academic
CAD sites on the web  (primarily VLSI rather than other kinds of CAD).
 
    Computational Topology .
Survey paper by Dey, Edelsbrunner, and Guha, presented at the conference
"Computational Geometry -- Ten Years After".  Includes descriptions of
applications in image processing, cartography, graphics, solid modeling,
mesh generation, and molecular modeling.
 
    Computer Aided Geometric Design .
 
    
Computer aided geometric design at Leeds U. ,
including work on ship and aircraft shapes.
 
    Curves
and surfaces for geometric modeling , and 
 Geometric Methods and Applications for Computer Science and Engineering , reviews and supplementary material for two books by
 Jean Gallier .
See also his courses
 CIS 610  and
 CIS 700  based on the second book.
 
    
Digital Design Media  online textbook.
 
   " Geometric approaches to mesh generation ",
by Christoph Hoffman of Purdue,
argues for a tighter coupling between mesh generation
and computer aided design.
 
    GIS and CAD .
John Thomas describes Rochester's experience with the interface
between GIS (for large-scale geographic data) and CAD
(for smaller scale architectural information such
as street layout).
 
    
Kinematics-driven Geometric Modeling: A Framework for Simultaneous
Sculptured Surface Design and CNC Tool Path Generation ,
Q. Jeffrey Ge, 5th MSI Worksh. Comp. Geom.,
makes a case for tighter coupling between CAD and CAM.
 
    Minkowski
Operations for Satellite Antenna Layout , J-D. Boissonnat, E. de
Lange, and M. Teillaud, SCG 1997.
 
    Satellite
antenna layout .  How to place components on a satellite so they
don't interfere with each other, using geometric techniques including
decomposition of polyhedra into convex pieces.
 
    Symp. Comp. Geom. for Mechanics &amp; Appl. , Vienna, Austria, July 2002.
 
     
Part of
 Geometry in Action ,
a collection of applications of computational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 