 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Articles  


     
  

 
 

  June 3,  2004</strong>  The Orange County Register    A concrete thank you</strong>   By Gary Robbins</strong>   Irvine Co. Chairman Donald Bren is being doubly honored for two decades of helping nurture the University of California, Irvine, a campus his firm says greatly enhances the value of its huge real estate investments in Orange County.    UCI said Wednesday that its fast-growing computer school has been named the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Science. And the $50.6 million research and office complex the school will break ground on next Wednesday will be called Bren Hall.    The news comes six months after the 72-year-old Bren donated $20 million, most of which will be used to recruit the sort of elite professors who build programs attractive to nameplate technology companies such as Broadcom and foster the growth of the Irvine Co.'s shopping centers.    Bren Hall will become the second campus building to bear the name of the reclusive billionaire, who has donated $42.3 million to UCI since 1984.     Here is a sampling of Bren's contributions to the campus, which is roughly in the middle of the communities and companies his private firm has been developing or managing in Tustin, Irvine and Newport Beach:     THE BREN-UCI CONNECTION      1960:  The Irvine Co. donates 1,000 acres to the University of California for creation of an Irvine campus, the intended heart of a master-planned city. The land has a value of $10,000 to $12,000 per acre. Today, the value is $4 million per acre. The UC system later buys almost 500 additional acres from the Irvine Co. for future campus expansion.      1965:  UCI opens with 1,549 students.     1977:  Donald Bren joins other investors in buying the Irvine Co. Bren is the largest single investor, owning 34 percent of the company's shares.     1983:  Bren is elected chairman of the Irvine Co. He has been buying more shares and becomes sole owner in 1996.     1984-91:  Bren donates $1.56 million toward UCI Bren Events Center.     1988-2004:  Bren donates $35 million to the Donald Bren Endowment. Most of the money goes to create 23 endowed professorships to recruit or honor elite faculty, including UCI chemist and Nobel laureate F. Sherwood Rowland, biologist Francisco Ayala, winner of the National Medal of Science, and Donald McKayle, a prize-winning modern dance choreographer.     UCI AT A GLANCE  
- Fall 2004 enrollment: 24,000 (roughly the population of Laguna Beach)
2003-04 budget: $1.1 billion (est.) 
- Local economic impact: $3 billion annually (est.) 
- Workforce (including UCI Medical Center, Orange) 16,254 as of October 2003. UCI is the third-largest employer in Orange County, after Disneyland and the county government. 
- Nobel Prize winners: 2 
- National Academy of Sciences members: 19 
- Sources: The Irvine Co., UCI, and land broker Roland Chavez at O'Donnell Atkins, Irvine  A concrete thank you 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 