 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
Low-dimensional linear programming and LP-type problems
 
   Dynamic three-dimensional linear programming . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 91-53 , ICS, UCI, 1991.  32nd IEEE Symp. Foundations of Comp. Sci., 
San Juan, Puerto Rico, 1991, pp. 488–494.  ORSA J. Computing  4: 360–368, 1992
(special issue on computational geometry).
 
Uses Dobkin-Kirkpatrick hierarchies to perform
 linear programming 
queries in the intersection of several convex polyhedra.
By maintaining a collection of halfspaces as several subsets,
represented by polyhedra, this leads to algorithms for a dynamic
linear program in which updates change the set of constraints.
The fully dynamic results have largely been subsumed
by Agarwal and Matoušek, but this paper also includes
polylog time results for semi-online problems,
and uses them to give a fast randomized algorithm for the planar
2-center problem (later improved by various authors, most recently
in " Faster Construction of Planar Two-Centers ",
which re-uses the data structures described here).
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Approximating center points with iterated Radon points .  
K. Clarkson , D. Eppstein, 
 G.L. Miller ,
 C. Sturtivant , and 
 S.-H. Teng .   9th ACM Symp. Comp. Geom.,  San Diego, 1993, pp. 91–98 .   Int. J. Comp. Geom. &amp; Appl.  6 (3): 357–377, 1996 .
 
Given a collection of  n  sites,
a center point is a point (not necessarily a site)
such that no hyperplane through the centerpoint
partitions the collection into a very small and a very large subset.
Center points have been used by Teng and others
as a key step in the construction of geometric separators.
One can find a point with this property by choosing
a random sample of the collection and applying
 linear programming ,
but the complexity of that method grows exponentially with the dimension.
This paper proposes an alternate method that
produces lower quality approximations (in terms of the size
of the worst hyperplane partition) but takes time
polynomial in both  n  and  d. 
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
    The centroid of points with approximate weights .  M. Bern ,
D. Eppstein, 
 L. J. Guibas ,
J. Hershberger, 
 S. Suri , and 
 J. Wolter .   3rd Eur. Symp. Algorithms, 
Corfu, 1995 . 
Springer,  Lecture Notes in
Comp. Sci.  979, 1995, pp. 460–472.
 
Given a set of points with weights that are not known precisely,
but are known to fall within some range, considers the possible
weighted centroids arising from different choices of weights
in each range.  The combinatorics of this problem are closely
connected with those of
 zonotopes .
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
  
    Choosing subsets with maximum weighted average . 
D. Eppstein and 
 
D. S. Hirschberg .  Tech. Rep. 95-12, ICS, UCI, 1995 .  
 5th MSI Worksh. on Computational Geometry , 1995, pp. 7–8 .   J. Algorithms  24: 177–193, 1997 .
 
Uses geometric optimization techniques to find, among  n  weighted values,
the  k  to drop so as to maximize the weighted average of the remaining values.
The feasibility test for the corresponding decision problem involves
 k -sets in a dual line arrangement.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Full paper  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Optimal point placement for mesh smoothing .  N. Amenta ,
 M. Bern ,
and D. Eppstein.  
 8th ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete
Algorithms,  New Orleans, 1997, pp. 528–537 .  Symp.
Computational Geometry Approaches to Mesh Generation ,
SIAM 45th Anniversary Mtg., Stanford, 1997.  arXiv:cs.CG/9809081 .  
 J. Algorithms  30: 302–322, 1999 (special issue for SODA 1997) .
 
We study  finite element mesh  smoothing
problems in which we
move vertex locations to optimize the shapes of nearby
triangles.  Many such problems can be solved in linear time using
 generalized linear programming ; we also give
efficient
algorithms for some non-LP-type mesh smoothing problems.
One lemma may be of independent interest: the locus of points in R d 
from which a d-1 dimensional convex set subtends a given solid angle
is convex.
  ( BibTeX  --
 SODA paper  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Setting parameters by example . 
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.DS/9907001 .   40th
IEEE Symp. Foundations of Comp. Sci. , 1999, pp. 309–318 .  
 SIAM J. Computing  32 (3): 643–653, 2003 .
 
We introduce a class of "inverse parametric optimization"
problems, in which one is given both a parametric optimization problem
and a desired optimal solution; the task is to determine parameter
values that lead to the given solution.  We use
 low-dimensional linear programming 
and geometric sampling techniques to solve
such problems for
 minimum spanning trees ,
 shortest paths , and
other optimal subgraph problems, and discuss applications in
multicast routing, vehicle path planning, resource allocation, and board
game programming.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 ACM DL (FOCS)  --
 ACM DL (SJC) )
  
    Optimal Möbius transformations for information visualization
and meshing .  M. Bern 
and D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.CG/0101006 .   7th Worksh. Algorithms and Data
Structures,  Providence, Rhode
Island, 2001 . 
Springer,  Lecture Notes in
Comp. Sci.  2125, 2001, pp. 14–25.
 
We give linear-time
 quasiconvex programming 
algorithms for finding a Möbius transformation of a
 set of spheres 
in a unit ball or on the
surface of a unit sphere that maximizes the minimum size of a
transformed sphere. We can also use similar methods to maximize the
minimum distance among a set of pairs of input points. We apply these
results to vertex separation and symmetry display in spherical
 graph drawing , viewpoint selection in
 hyperbolic  browsing, and element size
control in conformal structured
 mesh generation .
  
( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 WADS talk slides  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Optimization over zonotopes and training support vector machines .  M. Bern 
and D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.CG/0105017 .   7th Worksh. Algorithms and Data
Structures,  Providence, Rhode
Island, 2001 . 
Springer,  Lecture Notes in
Comp. Sci.  2125, 2001, pp. 111–121.
 
We use the
 ellipsoid method 
to develop (theoretically) efficient algorithms
for optimizing linear functions on intersections of
 zonotopes ,
and show how to apply this to train soft-margin support vector classifiers.
  
( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 WADS talk slides  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Optimized color gamuts for tiled displays .  M. Bern 
and D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.CG/0212007 .  
 19th ACM Symp. Comp. Geom.,  San Diego, 2003, pp. 274–281 .
 
We consider the problem of finding a large color space that can be
generated by all units in multi-projector tiled display systems. Viewing
the problem geometrically as one of finding a large parallelepiped
within the intersection of multiple parallelepipeds, and using
colorimetric principles to define a volume-based objective function for
comparing feasible solutions, we develop an algorithm for finding the
optimal gamut in time O(n 3 ), where n denotes the number of
projectors in the system. We also discuss more efficient
 quasiconvex programming  algorithms for
alternative objective functions based on
maximizing the quality of the color space extrema.
  
( BibTeX  --
 SCG talk slides )
  
    Quasiconvex analysis of backtracking algorithms . 
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.DS/0304018 .  15th ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete Algorithms, 
New Orleans, 2004, pp. 781–790.   ACM Trans. Algorithms  2 (4): 492–509 (special issue for SODA 2004), 2006 .
 
We consider a class of multivariate recurrences frequently arising
in the worst case analysis of Davis-Putnam-style
 exponential time
backtracking algorithms  for NP-hard problems. We describe a
technique for proving asymptotic upper bounds on these recurrences,
by using a suitable weight function to reduce the problem to that of
solving univariate linear recurrences; show how to use  quasiconvex programming  to determine the weight
function yielding the smallest
upper bound; and prove that the resulting upper bounds are within a
polynomial factor of the true asymptotics of the recurrence. We
develop and implement a multiple-gradient descent algorithm for the
resulting quasiconvex programs, using a real-number arithmetic
package for guaranteed accuracy of the computed worst case time
bounds. 
  
The journal version uses the longer title "Quasiconvex analysis of
multivariate recurrence equations for backtracking algorithms".
  
( BibTeX  --
 SODA talk slides  --
 Citations )
  
    Quasiconvex programming . 
D. Eppstein. 
Invited talk at DIMACS Worksh. on Geometric Optimization, New Brunswick,
NJ, 2003. 
Plenary talk at  ALGO 2004 ,
Bergen, Norway, 2004.  arXiv:cs.CG/0412046 .  Combinatorial and Computational Geometry , Goodman, Pach, and
Welzl, eds., MSRI Publications 52, 2005, pp. 287–331.
 
Defines  quasiconvex programming , a form of generalized linear
programming in which one seeks the point minimizing the pointwise
maximum of a collection of quasiconvex functions.
Surveys algorithms for solving quasiconvex programs either numerically
or via generalizations of the dual simplex method from linear
programming, and describe varied applications of this geometric
optimization technique in meshing, scientific computation, information
visualization, automated algorithm analysis, and robust statistics.
  
( DIMACS talk slides  --
 ALGO talk slides )
  
    Hyperbolic geometry, Möbius transformations, and geometric optimization . 
D. Eppstein.  Invited
talk at MSRI Introductory Worksh. Discrete &amp; Computational Geometry ,
Berkeley, CA, 2003.
 
Describes extensions of computational geometry algorithms to  hyperbolic
geometry , including an output-sensitive 3d Delaunay triangulation
algorithm of Boissonat et al. and
my own research on
 optimal Möbius transformation .
  
( Citations )
  
    Minimum dilation stars.  
D. Eppstein and
 K. Wortman .  arXiv:cs.CG/0412025 .  21st ACM Symp. Comp. Geom.,  Pisa, 2005, pp. 321–326.   Comp. Geom. Theory &amp; Applications  37 (1): 27–37, 2007 .
 
We show how to test the dilation of a star, embedded in a Euclidean
space of bounded dimension, in time O(n log n),
and how to find the star center that has the minimum dilation for
a given set of leaf points in randomized expected time
O(n log n).
For two-dimensional points, we can find the minimum dilation center,
constrained to be one of the input points, in time
O(n 2 α(n)  log 2 n).
The unconstrained center placement algorithm involves
 quasiconvex programming , and is used
as a subroutine in the constrained center placement algorithm.
  
( SoCG05 talk slides  --
 Citations  --
 BibTeX )
  
     
 Geometry  --
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 