 
	andre – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
		
 	   	  		 Author Archive 
 	  
				 
				  PorchLight ICSE paper!  

				 
                	 December 4, 2012   Congrats to Gerald Bortis for the ICSE acceptance of his paper on PorchLight! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on PorchLight ICSE paper!    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Sergio!  

				 
                	 October 20, 2012   Our group continues to grow! We are very excited to welcome Sergio Villaverde Herrera to the laboratory. He is joining us for the year as an education abroad student from the University of Granada, Spain, and is exploring building a scalable server side to Calico (scalable to many many users). 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Sergio!    

			 

				 
				  SDCL has moved  

				 
                	 September 11, 2012   The SDCL has moved! Our new space is in ICS1, room 414 (see our directions page). Come visit us in our new space for a tour (and demos, as always!). 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on SDCL has moved    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Michele!  

				 
                	 September 11, 2012   We are very excited to welcome Michele Bonazza to the laboratory. He is joining us for four months as a visitor from the University of Padova, Italy, and will be developing an Android version of Calico (!) 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Michele!    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Christian!  

				 
                	 September 11, 2012   We are very excited to welcome Christian Adriano to the laboratory. He is joining us as a new Ph.D. student from Sao Paolo, Brazil. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Christian!    

			 

				 
				  ICSE 2012  

				 
                	 June 2, 2012   Four members of the SDCL, Lee Martie, Alfredo Motta, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek, will attend ICSE 2012. Lee will present in the MSR Challenge, Alfredo in the Doctoral Symposium, and Thomas in the ICSE main research track. 
				 

				   Posted in   Travel  |     Comments Off  on ICSE 2012    

			 

				 
				  ISR Research Forum  

				 
                	 May 18, 2012   The SDCL was an active participant in the ISR Research Forum, with numerous demos given during the open house and lots of good connections being made. All in all a fun day, especially with the great feedback we received on our projects. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on ISR Research Forum    

			 

				 
				  Brazilian collaborators visit  

				 
                	 April 16, 2012   SDCL friends Claudia Werner, Leo Murta, and Marcelo Schots visit us from UFRJ in Rio and UFF in Niteroi this week, exchanging research ideas, exploring collaborations, and working on a joint paper. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Brazilian collaborators visit    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Alfredo Motta  

				 
                	 April 2, 2012   We welcome Alfredo Motta to our lab; Alfredo is visiting us for four months from Politecnico di Milano, and is exploring how designers can be assisted with feedback about their designs in progress. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Alfredo Motta    

			 

				 
				  Papers accepted  

				 
                	 March 31, 2012   Congrats to Lee Martie for getting a paper accepted in the MSR 2012 Challenge track, and Nick Mangano for getting a paper accepted in JASE [link]. Well done! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Papers accepted    

			 

		        
		         
              « Previous Page  
              Next Page »  
              
         
                
	 
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 