 More Java<body>

 
 More Java 
 
  Introduction to Computer Science I-III
 
ICS-21/-22/-23  
 
  




        Introduction  
 
  In this short lecture, we will clarify some points about the meaning of
     final  in variable declarations, introduce two operators used in
     conditional expressions  and discuss  short-circuit  evaluation
    in logical operators
  All these features allow us to write more compact and understandable code,
    once we understand these language features.
 
           More on final  
 
  In the real world, a constant is a named value that never changes. 
  Examples of constants are π (pi), e, the speed of light, the mass of a
    proton (we think?) etc.
  In programs, a constant is a variable whose value never changes within its
    scope (i.e., during the time the variable is declared).
  This is a slightly more liberal definition.
  So, any real-world constant is a program constant, but a program constant
    doesn't have to be a real-world constant.
   
  For example, to compute a mortgage, a program uses the current interest rate.
  This value is not a real-world constant, because its value changes daily.
  But, once the program starts computing the mortgage payments, the current
    interest rate is a constant in that program.
    
  We have seen that we can declare local variables as constants, by using the
      final  access modifier (recall that  final  restricts how we
     can access the variable).
  When a variable is declared  final  it must be intialized, its value
    can be examined in subsequent expressions, but its value can never be
    changed by a state-change operator.
  We will use the terms  constant  and  final variable  
    interchangably.
  If we write code that tries to change a constant, the Java compiler detects
    and reports a syntax constraint error.
  In fact, we can use this rule to get some interesting information from the
    compiler: every statement where we change the state of a variable.
  We do so by changing it from a variable to a constant, and then let the 
    compiler locate all the "errors" where we try to change its state.
    
  When we write programs, we should declare constants instead of using "magic"
     literals.
  The names of the constants will help us remember what the constant means
    (without having to see its values: what is  6.022141E23  or
     2.99792458E8 ?).
  Using constants instead of variables makes our programs less prone to error:
    if we use a variable, we might accidentally change what value it stores
    -this is impossible with constants.
    
  Using constants also makes it easier to change our programs: in the upcoming
    Rocket program we can write  .01  in lots of places, but if we
     needed to change that value to  .001  (for a more accurate
     simulation), we might have to search our code carefully to make the
     correct changes (there might be other  .01 s in our program not 
    refering to the time increment).
  If instead we declared  final double dT = .01;  (here  dT 
    stands for delta/change-in time) in our program, and then used the
    constant  dT  throughout our code, to change this value
    requires editing just this one line of code, and then recompiling the
    program.
    
  Although use of  final  in the example below may be a bit confusing, it
     is perfectly legal.
       int count = 0;
  int sum   = 0;
  for (;;) {
    final int score = Prompt.forInt("Enter score (-1 to terminate)");
    if (score == -1)
      break;
    count++;
    sum += score;
  }
  System.out.println("Average = " + sum/count);  
  In this example,  score  is declared  final  and indeed, its value
    (once initialized) never changes in its scope: the block in which
     score  is declared.
  When the block finishes,  score  becomes undeclared; then the  for 
    loop re-executes the block, redeclaring and reinitializing the  score 
    constant all over again.
  So, our use of  score  meets all the technical requirements for a 
    constant.
  Some programmers would pronounce this code excellent; others would say that
    indicating  final  is not worth it.
  What do you think?
   
  Most constants specify an initializer in their declaration; but surprsingly,
    this is not necessary.
  If the initializer is omitted, it is called a  blank final  variable.
  The Java compiler is smart enought to ensure
       a blank final variable is eventually assigned an initial value
        a blank final variable is not used until after it is assigned a value
        a blank final variable it is never reassigned another one value.
      
  So, it is OK to write code like    final double d;     //blank final
  ...code...          //cannot refer to the constant d
  if (whatever)       //value is assigned to constant d in one if branch
    d = ...
  else
    d = ...
  ...more code...     //care refer to but not change the constant d  
  Any further attempt to store a value into  d  will be detected and
    reported as an error by the Java compiler.
  When we learn how to write instance variables in classes, we will see more
    reasonable uses of blank final.
  
            Conditional Operators ? and :  
 
  There are two operators that work together in Java, helping us to condense
    our code by allowing us to write short expressions instead of longer
    statements.
  These two operators,  ?  and  :  constitute what is called a
     conditional expression .
  Please constrast this with  if  statements, which are sometimes 
    called  conditional statements : the distinction between
     expression  and  statement  is important.
  The EBNF rule for a conditional expression is
   
&amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp  conditional-expression  expression ?  expression  :  expression 
    
  As a syntax constraint, the first  expression  must return a 
     boolean  result, and the second two  expression s
    must return a result of the same type (it can be any type, but they must
    match).
    
  We will write conditional expressions using the following form (almost
    always putting them in parentheses, which makes reading them easier)
      (test ? expression T  : expression F )  
  Together,  ?  and  :  are called  ternary  operators (not
    unary or binary: they have three operands); they are called  distfix 
    because the operators are  dis tributed around their operands
    (not prefix, infix, or postfix).
    
  Semantically, Java first evaluates  test , if it is  true  the
    result of the conditional expression is the result of evaluating
     expression T  ; if it is  false  the result of the
    conditional expression is the result of evaluating
     expression F  .
  So, only two of the three expressions are ever evaluated.
  Because each conditional expression must have a unique result type, and
    because its value can be computed by either  expression T  
    or  expression F  , the Java compiler has a syntax constraint
    that requires these expressions to have the same type. 
    
  Let's look at three concrete examples of conditional expressions and the
     if  statements that they condense.
  One can often simplify short  if  statements with even shorter
    conditional expressions, but large  if  statements often cannot
    be simplified.
      if (n &gt; 0)         x = (n&gt;0 ? 0 : 1);
    x = 0;
  else
    x = 1;


  if (pennies == 1)
    System.out.println("1 penny");
  else
    System.out.println(pennies + " pennies");

  System.out.println(pennies + (pennies==1 ? " penny" : " pennies"));


  if (n%2 == 0)
    System.out.println(n + " is even");
  else
    System.out.println(n + " isn't even");

  System.out.println(n + (n%2==0 ? " is" : " isn't") + " even");  
  Upon reading this code, many students think that the  if  statements are
    simpler; but that is because they are more familiar with  if 
    statements, and less familiar with conditional expressions.
  Most experience programmers think that the conditional expressions are
    simpler.
  Of course, which form you ultimately use is a matter of taste.
  But it is important that you understand conditional expressions, and can
    switch back and forth between them and simple  if  statements,
    when it is possible.
  
           Short-Circuit Evaluation  
 
  We have learned that binary infix operators evaluate both their operands 
   first, and then compute their resulting value.
  Actually, this ordering is correct for all but the  &amp;&amp;  and  || 
     logical operators.
  Instead, these operators use  short-circuit  evaluation: they always
    evaluate their left operand first; if they can compute their resulting 
   value from this operand alone, they do so without evaluating their right
   operand; if they cannot determine the resulting value from the left operand
    alone, then they evaluate their right operand and compute the resulting
    value
   
  Note that if the left operand of  &amp;&amp;  evaluates to  false , the
    result must be  false :  false &amp;&amp; false  as well as
     false &amp;&amp; true  evaluate to  false , so the value of the right
    operand is irrelevant.
  Note that if the left operand of  ||  evaluates to  true , the
    result must be  true :  true || false  as well as
     true || true  evaluate to  true , so again the value of the
    right operand is irrelevant.
    
  To see how we can use this short-circuit property when programming, assume
    that a program declares  int totalParts = 0, badParts = 0;  and
    increments the appropriate variables when a part is tested.
  Next, assume that if the ratio of bad parts to total parts is ever over 5%
   (or  .05 ) we want to recognize this problem and display a message.
  Because we have short-circuit evaluation, we can simply write  
  if ( totalParts != 0 &amp;&amp; (double)badParts/(double)totalParts &gt; .05)
    System.out.println("Too many bad parts");  
  Notice that if  totalParts  is zero, then the left operand of  &amp;&amp; 
    is  false , so Java doesn't bother to evaluate the right operand.
  Without short-circuit evaluation, Java would evaluate the right operand too,
    causing an exception to be thrown because of division by zero.
  Also, if we had written the second conjunct first, Java would do the division
    BEFORE comparing  totalParts  to zero, which could also throw an
    exception.
  So, the operands to the  &amp;&amp;  and  ||  operators are not symmetric
    because short-circuit evaluation is used.
    
  In a programming language without short-circuit evaluation, we would have to
    write the following, more complicated code, to achieve safety from division
    by zero.
     if (totalParts != 0)
    if ((double)badParts/(double)totalParts &gt; .05)
      System.out.println("Too many bad parts");  
  which requires two, nested  if  statements, instead of one.
    
  As a final example, suppose that we are writing a game-playing program, and
    the user must terminate the bet-play loop if his/her purse is 0 or if
    he/she elects to quit (if the former is true, the user shouldn't even be
     prompted about electively quitting; he/she must quit because he/she has
     no more money).
  With short-circuit evaluation, we can write one  if  statement that
    captures all these semantics
      if (purse == 0 || Prompt.forBoolean("Quit?"))
    break;  
  Because of short-circuit evaluation, if purse is zero, the  if 's test
    will evaluate to  true  before prompting the user; only if purse is
    not zero will the user be prompted about quitting.
    
  Again, in a programming language without short-circuit evaluation, we could
    safely write the following, more complicated code
      if (purse == 0)
    break;
  if (Prompt.forBoolean("Quit?"))
    break;  
  which requires two, sequential  if  statements, instead of one.
    
  Finally, short-circuit evaluation actually works in conditional expressions
     too.
  For example, if we write the conditional expresson  (true ? 1 : 1/0) 
    Java's result is  1 ; because the expression evaluates to  true 
    Java evaluates only the expression  1  and not the expression
     1/0 .
  If Java fully evaluated all expressions first, it would throw an exception.
  Recall the semantics of the conditional expression:
  Java first evaluates the  test , if it is  true  the result of the
    conditional expression is the result of evaluating
     expression T  ; if it is  false  the result of the
     conditional expression is the result of evaluating
      expression F  .
  So, it uses  test  to determine which other expression to evaluate, and
    only evaluates that one other expression.
  It always evaluates two of the three expressions.
  
           Problem Set  
 
  To ensure that you understand all the material in this lecture, please solve
    the the announced problems after you read the lecture.
   
  If you get stumped on any problem, go back and read the relevant part of the
     lecture.
  If you still have questions, please get help from the Instructor, a CA, or any other student.

     Assume that we declared  final int maxClassSize = 50;  which
           of the following statements would cause the Java compiler to detect
           and report an error. Also assume  int x; 
            maxClassSize++; 
              System.out.println(maxClassSize); 
              maxClassSize = 50; 
              maxClassSize += 10; 
              x = maxClassSize + 2; 
            
     
        Assume that we declared  final StringTokenizer st = new StringTokenizer("A man, a plan, a canal: Panama");  which
           of the following statements would cause the Java compiler to detect
           and report an error. Also assume  int x; 
            String s = st.nextToken(); 
              x = st.countTokens(); 
              st = new StringTokenizer("Another string"); 
            
     

        Examine the two code fragments below.
         For each, say whether it is legal and why (or why not).
         Rewrite the  if  statement using a conditional expression.
  
  int x = Prompt.forInt("Enter x");
  if (x != 0)
    final int y = 0;
  else
    final int y = 1;
  System.out.println(y);

  int x = Prompt.forInt("Enter x");
  final int y;
  if (x != 0)
    y = 0;
  else
    y = 1;
  System.out.println(y);  
 
     
        Assume that we declare  int x;  what is wrong with the following
           conditional expression:
           System.out.println(x==0 ? 0 : "non-zero"); 
      
     
        Translate the following  if  statement into an equivalent
           conditional expression (see above).
             if (x&gt;y)
    max = x;
  else
    max = y;  
      

        Assume that we declare  int minute;  and assign it a value
           between  0  and  59 .
         Write a conditional expression whose values is always a two digit
            String  representing a  minute : e.g.,
           if  x  stores  5  its result is  "05" ;
           if  x  stores  25  its result is  "25" .
   
   </body> 