 The EVOKE Lab » EVOKE Lab and Studio 


  



 

		
		 
			 EVOKE Lab and Studio 
		 


		   Home  
  About  
  News  
  Events  
  Projects  
  People  
  Blog  
  Contact  
   
 

		
		 
			  
			 The EVOKE Lab 
		 

				


					 
						
					 The EVOKE Lab space is the home base for all of our working, conversations, whiteboarding, and general plans to change the world through better technology design. Housed in a generous space on the second floor of the UC-Irvine Calit2 building, we have turned what used to be a backroom storage space into a comfortable working lab. 
 There are four main sections to the Lab space, created to match the natural workflow of the HCI design process. 
  We have a space with comfortable couches and chairs, small tables. and a central table that is also a large sketching pad. This space also has an Apple TV and large screen television, so we can easily throw images from our laptops up to share during discussions. This is where the brainstorming and blue sky activities take place. 
 Next, we have an area for smaller meetings around the low table, where we can take and refine the results of brainstorming and formulate the action plans for advancing our research projects. 
 Halfway through the lab, we have a high table with comfortable chairs, along with Thundebolt and Asus monitors to hook up your own laptop, and a Cintiq 24HD multitouch monitor for doing professional-level design. We’ve outfitted this set of stations with full suites of Autodesk and Adobe design software to take research ideas and plans and turn them into spec’d-out conceptual designs that can move on to the building phase. 
 Finally, we have a few private stations at the end of the room for more persistent projects that need to live somewhere for a while without being moved around. Sometimes, students also use them as private study carrels – not separated from the lab, but just out of sight enough to get some good heads-down reading, writing, or sketching done. 
  The Lab has a wide range of equipment for anyone to come in, explore, learn how to use, and integrate into project work, and we welcome the entire campus community to share our resources! Some of the equipment stays in the Lab, but plenty is available to check out! Here’s a partial list of some of the interesting and provocative technologies we have available: 
 
  Hardware:</strong> 
  MacBook Pros 
 Dell Inspirons 
 Apple TV 
 Makerbot2 Replicator 3D printer 
 3Doodler 3D pen 
 Arduino kits 
 Raspberry Pi kits 
 LeapMotion gestural controllers 
 Kinects 
 Pico projectors 
 HD Video cameras 
 GoPro and VEHO sport video cameras 
 Kurzweil 2600XS sampling audio workstation 
  
 
  Software:</strong> 
  Adobe Creative Cloud
  Acrobat 
 AfterEffects 
 Audition 
 Bridge 
 Dreamweaver 
 Edge 
 Edge Code 
 Edge Inspect 
 Fireworks 
 Flash 
 GamingSDK 
 Illustrator 
 InCopy 
 InDesign 
 Lightroom 
 Muse 
 Photoshop 
 Prelude 
 Premiere 
 Scout 
 SpeedGrade 
  
  
 
   Software (continued):</strong>  
  Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite Ultimate
  Maya 
 3DS Max 
 Softimage 
 MotionBuilder 
 Mudbox 
  
 Autodesk Product Design Suite Ultimate
  Inventor Professional 
 AutoCAD 
 AutoCAD Electrical 
 AutoCAD Mechanical 
 AutoCAD Raster Design 
 AutoCAD Recap 
 Vault Basic 
 3DS Max Design 
 Navisworks Simulate 
 Navisworks Manage 
  
 Axure Rapid Prototyping 
 Max/MSP/Jitter 
 Microsoft Office 
 Rhino3D 
 SketchUp 
  

		   
				   
			    
				   
			    
				   
			     
				   
			    
				   
			    



					 

				


				

			 
 

		 EVOKE Lab &amp; Studio @ University of California-Irvine © 2017   ^ Top  

	 
</body> 