 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  September 12,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         Alumni success story: Ersin Uzun</strong>
              Computer Science alumnus named VP, director of PARC’s Computing Science Lab
    
                    Computer Science alumnus  Ersin Uzun  (M.S., Ph.D. ’10) was recently appointed vice president and director of the Xerox PARC’s (Palo Alto Research Center) Computing Science Laboratory (CSL). This is the very same CSL that invented the notions of: GUI, Bitmap Graphics, Ethernet, and Object-Oriented Programming and Ubiquotous Computing. 
 In this new role, Uzun will lead the research and development of new security and communication technologies, as well as the innovation service offerings such as rapid prototyping, user needs research and innovation management consultancy. “This is a tremendous achievement for someone only six years out of graduate school,” says Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Gene Tsudik, who was Uzun’s Ph.D. advisor. “His success is a reflection on the caliber of students graduating from our Computer Science and Networked Systems programs, who are ready to make a difference in the world.” 
 Uzun has been working at  PARC  since 2010. He started as a senior research scientist before going on to direct PARC’s research efforts in data security and privacy, leading some of its visionary research in privacy-preserving analytics, content-centric networking and named-data networking. He then served as PARC’s global director of technology solutions and strategy, leading its efforts in developing innovative and cutting-edge solutions to the industries’ most challenging problems, before being promoted to his current position as VP and CSL director. 
 Aside from PARC, Uzun’s worked at Nokia Research, HP Labs and Ericsson. His professional experience also includes co-founding hi-tech startups and working as a technology consultant. He is also the author of more than 100 peer-reviewed publications and issued/pending patents. 
 Learn more and connect with Uzun  here &gt;  



  Alumni success story: Ersin Uzun    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Bowker awarded two NSF grants for big data research

              
                Next &gt; 
                 ICS study links selfies, happiness 
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 