 
	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                             
        	
		
		    
  
            
 
 
 
	 Calico 
	 ...an intuitive sketch-based design environment for use on touch-based devices... 
	  
	   
 
	 PorchLight 
	 ...a desktop bug tracker interface designed to support effective bug triaging... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Development 
	 ...a cloud IDE for building software with a crowd... 
	  
	   
 
	 CodeExchange 
	 ...supporting iterative internet-scale code search... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Debugging 
	 How hundreds of workers can help locate faults in software?  
	  
	   
 
	 CrowdDesign 
	 ...crowd sourced software designs [...] 
	  
	   
 

             
            
             
                  Welcome 			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design. 
		              
         
                
         
			 
            	 	
			 
     
         May 16  17  
          Consuelo’s ICSE-2016 presentation                     
     

				
     
         Consuelo presenting our research* on Crowd Design in ICSE crowdsourcing workshop ( CSI-SE-2016) . 
     
   
 *  Toward Microtask Crowdsourcing Software Design Work</strong> 
Authors:  Edgar R.Q. Weidema, Consuelo López, Sahand Nayebaziz, Fernando Spanghero and André van der Hoek  
   Photograph taken by Thomas La Toza (thanks!)  
        
           Posted in    conference   Travel   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Consuelo’s ICSE-2016 presentation   
         
     
  												  
     
         May 16  17  
          SDCL team in data science hackathon                     
     

				
     
         Thomas and Christian teamed up with undergraduate students Sreeja, Sid, and Chris to develop a tool that helps visualize mobility patterns of devices and apps on the city of New York. More about our project here:  Tool wiki  
 Tired happy faces after coding for 28 hours straight. 
     
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on SDCL team in data science hackathon   
         
     
  												  
     
         Apr 16  28  
          Congratulations to Arturo Di Lecce!                     
     

				
     
         Arturo recently defended and passed his MS thesis in  crowd development ! 
     
        
           Posted in    News   by  lmartie .
          Comments Off  on Congratulations to Arturo Di Lecce!   
         
     
  												  
     
         Mar 16  15  
          Affinity diagram session!                     
     

				
     
         We have just categorized a few dozen sketches produced by a crowd of designers. 
     
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Affinity diagram session!   
         
     
  												  
     
         Mar 16  11  
          Lee was awarded the IBM fellowship                     
     

				
     
         Lee Martie (5th year Ph.D. student) was awarded the IBM fellowship. The IBM Ph.D. Fellowship Awards Program is an intensely competitive worldwide program, which honors exceptional Ph.D. students who have an interest in solving problems that are important to IBM and fundamental to innovation in many academic disciplines and areas of study (more information can be found following this link:  IBM Fellowship ) 
 Congratulations Lee! 
   
   
        
           Posted in    News   by  Consuelo Lopez .
          Comments Off  on Lee was awarded the IBM fellowship   
         
     
  												  
     
         Mar 16  6  
          Congratulations Dr. Gerald!                     
     

				
     
         Gerald Bortis defended and passed his PhD Thesis dissertation titled “PorchLight: A Tag-based Approach to Bug Triaging”. The defense took place last Friday and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Crista Lopes and James Jones. 
 Congratulations Dr. Gerald! 
     
     
        
           Posted in    News   by  Consuelo Lopez .
          Comments Off  on Congratulations Dr. Gerald!   
         
     
  												  
     
         Mar 16  2  
          Congratulations, Sara!                     
     

				
     
         Sara Triplett defended and passed her MS Thesis today. The tile of her talk was “Design Workspaces: Preserving and Recovering Meaning in Groups of Sketches” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Marian Petre and James Jones. 
 Congratulations Sara! 
     
        
           Posted in    News   by  Consuelo Lopez .
          Comments Off  on Congratulations, Sara!   
         
     
  												  
     
         Feb 16  25  
          Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams (again!)                     
     

				
     
         We redecorated the conference room! 
We have just categorized around 250 sketches the CrowdDesign team collected in their second and latest experiment. It took 2h for a crowd of five people to do the job! We all enjoyed pizza after the hard work. 
     
        
           Posted in    News   by  Consuelo Lopez .
          Comments Off  on Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams (again!)   
         
     
  												  
     
         Jan 16  20  
          New Scholarship                     
     

				
     
         Congratulations to Consuelo López, who was recently granted the 2016 Miguel Velez scholarship. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  Consuelo Lopez .
          Comments Off  on New Scholarship   
         
     
  												  
     
         Jan 16  20  
          Congratulations, Lee Martie!                     
     

				
     
         Lee Martie defended and passed his PhD Topic Proposal on Tuesday. The tile of his talk was “Supporting Iterative Internet-Scale Code Search” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Cristina Lopes and James Jones. 
 Congratulations Lee! 
        
           Posted in    News   by  Consuelo Lopez .
          Comments Off  on Congratulations, Lee Martie!   
         
     
  												 	    
         
          
          Next Page »  
          
     
    
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			      
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 