 debra j. richardson spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Debra J. Richardson spotlight 

 
 

  Climbing High </strong>
 
 
  
Debra J.  Richardson
 
 
As an undergraduate at UC San Diego, Debra Richardson held thoughts of becoming a math teacher. Fortunately for the Bren School and computer technology in general, an introductory programming course caught her eye. The rest, as they say, is history.
 Today, Richardson is the Ted and Janice Smith Family Foundation Dean of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences – and her ambitions stretch far beyond teaching mathematics. 
 "During my tenure, I am striving for ICS to climb into the top 10 among computer science programs in the country," says Richardson.  
 Also very important is bringing more women and minorities into the field of computer science, she says. 
 During Richardson's time as dean, the roster of ICS faculty and staff has grown 25 percent in an effort to keep pace with student interest. Since 1998, enrollments have grown by more than 200 percent while maintaining ICS' traditional high quality of students, Richardson notes. 
  BUILDING ON STRENGTHS </strong> 
        One of the most flexible computer science programs in the nation, ICS has built upon its broad foundation – from computer systems to the social impacts of computing – as it expands into graphics and visualization, security and cryptography, Internet-based information systems and ubiquitous computing (what's been termed the "third wave" of computing in which technology recedes into the background of daily life).  
 
 Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.
 
 The school also is well known for its strength in interactive and collaborative technologies based in biology, medicine and physical sciences, as well as social sciences and humanities. 
 "It would have been difficult to do a better job than Debra has done at steering the school through a period of rapid change and growth," says Pierre Baldi, professor of computer science and director of the UCI Institute of Genomics and Bioinformatics. "She has been able to keep her focus on the most important issues and use diplomatic skills that are not always easy to find among computer scientists." 
  A VISIONARY LEADER  </strong>Richardson made her mark in the field of information and computer science with advances in an area known as "specification-based testing." 
 Traditionally, most software testing has consisted of determining whether a program performed its required tasks only after implementation. Richardson theorized that testing software throughout its development – particularly early on – would reduce problems and costs. 
 "If an error is made early in the lifecycle of software and it goes undetected until the end product, it costs hundreds of times more to fix than if it is caught early on," says Richardson. 
 Because of her success as a researcher, teacher and administrator, Richardson increasingly finds herself becoming a role model for other women in the field, and she is taking advantage of that status to attract more women into the profession. 
 However, she finds current trends disturbing. She notes that across the country only 9 percent of computer science faculty members are women. (At UCI, the figure is 20 percent.) Even more troubling is the decline in female students. During the 1980s, 35 percent of computer science students were female. Today, they make up only 28 percent – and only 15 percent in research universities. 
 "Women have always been underrepresented in the sciences as a whole," Richardson says. "But over the last 15 years the representation of women in other sciences has gone up, while in computer science it's actually gone down. 
 "Part of the problem," she continues, "is that most people think of computer scientists as geeks who sit in front of a computer all day designing programs. Computer science is much broader than that. There are applications of computer science in the arts, biology, medicine, the environment and transportation, just to name a few. When recognized, these social and collaborative sides of computing energize women in the field." 
 Popular computer games create another problem, she says. "Many computer games over the last 15 years have had a violent aspect to them in which most girls are not interested. So boys play games and think they are computer savvy. Unfortunately, in the classroom then, boys think they know it all and girls feel incompetent." 
 To counter these effects, Richardson is concentrating on outreach efforts to bring more women and other underrepresented populations into the field. She is on the Board of Directors at Girls Inc., an organization that encourages girls to finish high school and enter college, particularly as math and science majors.  
 As part of these efforts, she has arranged for young girls to spend a day on campus observing and learning.  
 "Computing is so pervasive in our society right now," Richardson says. "We need more women and underrepresented minorities in computer science. Without these different perspectives, we're limiting the way we can transform society through technology." 
 —  Alan Janson  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 