 Week 5: Women in Technology Talk by Northrop Grumman – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         
         
             

                            
                 Week 5: Women in Technology Talk by Northrop Grumman 
                          
                                
                                         

            
               Info Session    by admin 

            
                        on 11/03/2013 

                                
                                
                                 Cecilia Rubio came to talk to WICS about her journey into the world of IT as a woman on Wednesday, October 30th. Over 20 people came to learn about what it is like to work in Northrop Grumman, a leading global security company, and how Cecilia always presented herself as prepared and motivational, leading her to multiple job and internship opportunities. Being confident and overachieving is key to staying employed and possibly promoted in a company. Benefits that a company offer and its work environment is very important when looking for jobs, being happy in your future job is always the number one priority! Northrop Grumman offers many benefits for employees and is now hiring! 
 Don’t worry if you missed out, there are more opportunities in the future, stay updated with WICS’s events! 
 WICS would also like to thank all the people that came to this event even though they had midterms! 
  </strong>                                               « prev        1     2        next »    (6 Photos)  
   Share this:        Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)        
 
	  Related  
 
                                  

                             
         
     

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 
</body> 