 Southern California SPIN Steering Committe Election Procedure<body>

  Southern California 
Software Process Improvement Network (SPIN)  
Election Procedure for Steering Committee Roles  

 

December 2, 1994 
February 24, 1995 (revised)  
April 21, 1995 (revised) 
June 26, 1995 (revised)  
July 20, 1995 (accepted) 
July 21, 1997 (revised) 
July 25, 1997 (accepted)  
July 31, 1998 (revised and accepted)   

      I.   Scope </strong>

  

This procedure specifies the requirements for conducting the annual election 
for Southern California Software Process Improvement Network (SPIN) Steering 
Committee roles. It is considered a supplement to the Southern California SPIN 
Charter and does not override or supersede any item(s) specified in the 
charter.

  

 II.   Term </strong>
  

The term for all Steering Committee roles is October 1 of the
year in which the vote is held through September 30 of the following year.

  
 III.   Nominations </strong>

  

Any member of the Steering Committee may nominate any Steering Committee 
member, including him/herself. Nominations are made to either the Steering 
Committee Leader or the IRUS Representative. Nominations must be completed no 
later than four weeks prior to the August Steering Committee meeting.

  

Multiple candidates may be nominated to jointly fill a role.

  

Candidates must accept or refuse a nomination no later than three weeks prior 
to the August Steering Committee meeting. Acceptance/refusal notifications 
are made to the Steering Committee Leader or the IRUS Representative.

  

 IV.   Position Statements </strong>

  

Candidates for the Steering Committee Leader role should write a position 
statement and submit it to the IRUS Representative no later than two weeks 
prior to the August Steering Committee meeting. The IRUS Representative 
distributes the position statements to the Steering Committee members no 
later than one week prior to the August Steering Committee meeting.

  

 V.   Voting </strong>

  

The vote is held at the August Steering Committee meeting and is conducted by 
secret ballot supplied by the IRUS Representative. Absentee ballots of 
qualified voters are accepted by the IRUS Representative until the close-of-
business the day before the August meeting. An absentee ballot becomes 
invalid if the voter is present to vote in person at the August Steering 
Committee meeting.

  

 VI.   Qualification of Voter </strong>

  

Steering Committee membership is reviewed by the Steering Committee at the 
July meeting. Voting is limited to members with regular attendance as 
determined by attendance of at least three (3) of the six (6) meetings 
immediately preceding the vote.

  

 VII.   Ballot Count </strong>

  

Ballots are counted by the IRUS Representative and a volunteer who is not a 
candidate for a role. Both count the ballots separately and concur on the 
count. A simple majority decides the winner. A coin toss breaks a tie.

  

 VIII.  Change of Voting Date </strong>

  

If the vote is not held in August, it is instead conducted at the September 
Steering Committee meeting.

  

 IX.   Incomplete Terms </strong>

  

In the event that the Steering Committee Leader is unable to complete his/her 
term, the Deputy Leader acts as Steering Committee Leader for the duration of 
the current term.

  

If the holder of another role is unable to complete the term, the Steering 
Committee Leader requests a volunteer for that role. If more than one person 
volunteers for the role, a vote is held at the next Steering Committee 
meeting. 

  

Persons fulfilling incomplete terms carry out the duties of that role for the 
duration of the current term.

  
 Back to the IRUS home page 

   
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science  
University of California, Irvine  CA 92697-3425   
</body> 