 Untitled Document 
		 
			  CompSci 171: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence - Winter 2009  
			  
			   Note Board:    
			  Quiz on Tu. March 10  
		 
		  
				
			 
		   CompSci 171           Max Welling  
		   Organization        Policies      Topics      Homeworks      Slides   Grading   
		  
		   1.      Organization      (back to top)    
		  Instruction begins on Tu, Jan06.   
		 Lecture: Tu/Th 2.pm-3.20pm, BH 1600 
		 Dicussion sections: M/W, 3-3:50 pm, DBH 1300 
		 Instructor:  Max Welling</strong> (welling@ics.uci.edu); offiice hour: Wednesday 4-5pm Bren Hall 4028 
		 Teaching Assistant: Vesna Memisvic (vmemisev@uci.edu), office hour: Tuesdays, from 11-11:50 am, in DBH 4082.  
		  
		        
		        
		          
		          
		  2.     Policies    (back to top)   
		    Text:         
		  There is one required textbook for the course:  
		   Artificial Intelligence, A Modern Approach. 
					Second Edition, by Russel and Norvig (Prentice Hall).     
		  The textbook explains the subject material in detail. It is strongly recommended that you read the book. It is strongly recommended that you read the book and attend all lectures and all meetings of your discussion section. You will be responsible for all material covered in the lectures and discussion sections, and for all assigned reading in the book.   
		    Grading:     
		  - 2Quizzes (15%) 
				- One project (20%) 
					-A midterm (20%) 
					-A Final Exam (40%) 
				-Homework (5%) but required   
		  These are guidelines intended to help students plan their work in this course. 
				However, the instructor does reserve the right to make changes in these evaluation criteria.   A work-related conflict is NOT a valid reason for postponing an examination.    Please bring your student ID to all examinations.  
		    Graded Quizzes and Assignments:      
		  These can be picked up from DistributionCenter or in Discussion Section    
		    Grading Disputes:      
		  Turn in your work for regrading at the discussion section to the TA within 1 week. 
				Note: we will regrade the   entire   paper: so your new grade could be higher  or  lower.     
		    Questions on Grading:     
				For any questions regarding grades, please contact the TA during his office hours or at the end of the discussion sections.  
		    Obtaining Assistance:     
				The best way to get your questions answered is by coming to lecture, discussion or office hours and asking them there.  
		  Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation based on the impact of a disability should contact me privately to discuss his or her specific needs. Also contact the Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to better ensure that such accommodations are implemented in a timely fashion.  
		    Announcements:     
				Class announcements will be made in lecture and in discussion. Important announcements will also be posted on this class Web page. 
				The Web page will contain the most up-to-date course information. 
				Any corrections or additional explanations for the homework assignments will also be posted there, 
				so please check the Web page occasionally to stay up to date.  
		    Homework and Handouts:     
				The homework assignments are regularly posted on the Web.  
		  Some homework problems may be difficult. Homework that is turned in should be legible and well-written. 
				A badly written, poorly presented solution to a problem is of little value even if it happens to be correct.  
		  The homework problems are an integral part of the course. They complement the material covered in the lectures by providing examples, applications, and extensions. You are strongly encouraged to attempt all problems. Even if you cannot solve them, if you have tried hard to solve them you may be more likely to understand and remember the solution. Our brains learn something while attempting to solve a problem, even (and perhaps especially) during failed attempts. So do not get discouraged if a problem is difficult.  
		  Homework will not be graded. However, you are required to turn in your homework through the distribution center. You cannot pass this class without having attempted all homework assignments. You will find that you will score much higher on quizzes if you take you r homework seriously.  
		    Discussion Section:     
				You must be registered for a discussion section. The discussion section provides you with an opportunity to ask questions about the lecture material. It is strongly recommended that you attend a discussion section regularly. You are responsible for all material covered there.  
		    Academic Honesty:     
				All work done on quizzes, midterms and finals should be your own work. Cheating on any kind of in class examination will be taken very seriously. 
				Any such incident will result in a letter describing the incident which is placed in your file on campus. 
				Depending on the severity of the incident, the resulting grade can range from an F on the particular 
				examination to an automatic F in the course. Additional penalties may also be imposed by the department and the university. 
				Very severe incidents of academic dishonesty can result in suspension or expulsion from the university.  
		    ICS Change of Grade Option Policy:     
				The ICS departmental deadline for any ICS major to change their grade option is the end of 6th week with instructor's approval. Dean's signature (available at the ICS Student Affairs office) will be required after the deadline and the ICS Student Affairs office does not allow a change of grade option for any course after 6th week, unless the student has documented a medical or financial hardship.  
		    ICS Add Deadline:     
				The ICS departmental deadline for any ICS major to add an ICS course is the end of 3rd week with instructor's approval. Any course additions after the 3rd week of classes requires Dean's signature and careful review by the ICS Student Affairs office. If you are adding a course after the 3rd week, please go to the ICS Student Affairs office.  
		  
		  4.    List of Topics       (back to top)     
		  The following represents a very preliminary syllabus. Expect significant changes.    
		 Lecture 1.  Introduction:  Goals, history (Ch.1) 
		 Lecture 2.  Agents  (Ch.2) 
		 Lecture 3-4.  Uninformed Search  (Ch.3) 
		 Lecture 5-6  Informed Search  (Ch.4  NOT     sec.4.5 and after)  
		 Lecture 7-8.  Constraint satisfaction  (Ch.5). --   project  starts</strong> 
		 Lecture 9  Games  (Ch.6) 
		 Lecture 10.  Midterm</strong>  
		 Lecture 11-12.  Propositional Logic  (Ch.7  NOT  "circuit based agents" on page 227 and after) 
		 Lecture 13-14.  First Order Logic (Ch .8  NOT  sec. 8.4 and after) 
		 Lecture 15-16.  Inference in first order logic  (Ch.9  NOT  including "Completeness of Resolution" and after, p.300) 
		 Lecture 17-18.  Uncertainty  (Ch.13) 
		 Lecture 19  Philosphical Foundations  (Ch 26) 
		 Lecture 20  AI: Present and Future  (Ch 27) 
		  Final: </strong> 
		  
		  5.    Homeworks       (back to top)   
		   TA's website with solutions to HW and Quizzes.   
		 w eek 1: 
				Lec-1: Read Chapter 1 &amp; 26, and  the blog entry on "intelligence" .   
		  week2:   Lec-1 : Read Chapter 2, answer 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.6 (due Monday Jan.19 in discussion section).   Lec-2: Read Chapter 3 until sec. 3.4, answer 3.1, 3.3., 3.5 (due Monday Jan.19 in dicussion section)   
		  week3: 
				Lec-1: Read Appendix A1 &amp; Chapter 3.  Homework  (due Monday Jan 26 in discussion section) 
					Lec-2  : Read Chapter 4 (read it all but required material is until 4.5).  Homework  (due Monday Jan 26 in discussion section)   
		  week4: 
				Lec-1:  Homework  (due Monday Feb.02 in discussion section) 
					Lec-2: Read Chapter 5 (until where we end up in class).   
		  week5: 
				Lec-1: Finish Reading Chapter 5. No exercises. 
				Lec-2: Finish  Homework  (due Monday Feb.09 before discussion section).  
		  week6:  
				Lec-1: Quizz about chapter 5 CSPs (Feb.10) 
				Lec-2: Read Chapter 6.   Homework  (Due Monday Feb.16 before discussion section)   
		   THE ALL NEW 2009 AI PROJECT  (due on March 03)  
		  week7: 
					Lec-1:   Read Chapter 7.  Homework  (Due Febuary 23in discussion section)   
				Lec-2: Midterm (Feb.19)    week8: 
					Lec-1: Finish capter 7  Homework  (Due March 2 in discussion section)   Lec-2: Chapter 13  Homework  (Due March 9 in discussion section)   
		   --- we are here now -----   
		   week9: Suggested homework: exercise 8.6 on page 268.  
				This HW is not due but I strongly suggest you try it before the final.  
		  week10: Done!  
		  6.    Slides and other Downloads       (back to top)   
		   week1:  slides Chapter-1    
		   week2:  slides Chapter-2   slides Chapter-3A    
		   week3:   slides Chapter-3B   slides Chapter-4AB          Practice Quiz1+answers     Quiz+answers </strong>  
		   week4/5:  slides Chapter-5AB    
		   week6:  slides Chapter-6    
		   week7:   slides Chapter-7A    slides Chapter-7B    
		   week8:  slides Chapter-13    
		   week9:  slides Chapter-8    
		   week10:    
		  7.    Quizzes/Exams       (back to top)   
		  
		 
			 
				 
					 
						 
							 
								 
									 
										 
											 
												 
													 
														 
															 
																 
																	 
																		 
																			 
																				 
																					 
																						 
																							 
																								 
																									 
																										 
																											 
																												 
																													 
																														 
																															 
																																 
																																	 
																																		 
																																			 
																																				 
																																					 
																																						 
																																							 
																																								 
																																									 
																																										 
																																											 
																																												 
																																													 
																																														 
																																															 
																																																 
																																																	 
																																																		 
																																																			 
																																																				 
																																																					 
																																																						 
																																																							 
																																																								 
																																																									 
																																																										 
																																																											 
																																																												 
																																																													 
																																																														 
																																																															 
																																																																 
																																																																	 
																																																																		 
																																																																			 
																																																																				 
																																																																					 
																																																																						 
																																																																							 
																																																																								 
																																																																									 
																																																																										 
																																																																											 
																																																																												 
																																																																													 
																																																																														 
																																																																															 
																																																																																 
																																																																																	 
																																																																																		 
																																																																																			 
																																																																																				 
																																																																																					 
																																																																																						 
																																																																																							 
																																																																																								 
																																																																																									 
																																																																																										 
																																																																																											 
																																																																																												 
																																																																																													 
																																																																																														 
																																																																																															 
																																																																																																 
																																																																																																	 
																																																																																																		  
																																																																																																 
																																																																																															 
																																																																																														 
																																																																																													 
																																																																																												 
																																																																																											 
																																																																																										 
																																																																																									 
																																																																																								 
																																																																																							 
																																																																																						 
																																																																																					 
																																																																																				 
																																																																																			 
																																																																																		 
																																																																																	 
																																																																																 
																																																																															 
																																																																														 
																																																																													 
																																																																												 
																																																																											 
																																																																										 
																																																																									 
																																																																								 
																																																																							 
																																																																						 
																																																																					 
																																																																				 
																																																																			 
																																																																		 
																																																																	 
																																																																 
																																																															 
																																																														 
																																																													 
																																																												 
																																																											 
																																																										 
																																																									 
																																																								 
																																																							 
																																																						 
																																																					 
																																																				 
																																																			 
																																																		 
																																																	 
																																																 
																																															 
																																														 
																																													 
																																												 
																																											 
																																										 
																																									 
																																								 
																																							 
																																						 
																																					 
																																				 
																																			 
																																		 
																																	 
																																 
																															 
																														 
																													 
																												 
																											 
																										 
																									 
																								 
																							 
																						 
																					 
																				 
																			 
																		 
																	 
																 
															 
														 
													 
												 
											 
										 
									 
								 
							 
						 
					 
				 
			 
		 
		
	</body> 