 
    charless c. fowlkes - uc irvine - computer vision
    <body>
    
    
      
           
  
   
 charless c. fowlkes 
associate professor 
computer science 
uc irvine  
fowlkes@ics.uci 
4076 dbh  
949.824.6945   uci  :  cs  :  vision group    

      
      
   home   publications   presentations   software   

    
 
    
            
        The overarching goal of this project is to develop analytic methods
        that enable scientists to efficiently and automatcially discover
        relationships between shape and function in biological systems.
       
        This work has been supported by the NSF Emerging Frontiers and
        Biological Infrastructure Divisions in the form of a large
        collaborative effort on bioshape ( bioshapes.org ,  DBI-1053036 )
        and a collaborative project on bioimage analysis for understanding pollen morphology
        and texture ( DBI-1262547 )

              
        Pollen Texture-based Classification and Analysis  (with  Punyasena Lab at UIUC )
           
        The practice of identifying pollen has a large number of scientific
        applications and is used in fields as diverse as archaeology,
        biostratigraphy (the dating of rocks), and forensic science. Pollen and
        spores play a particularly important role in paleontology, because they
        form the most abundant and extensive record of plant diversity, dating
        back hundreds of millions of years. However, many critical hypotheses
        in plant ecology and evolution (e.g. the assembly of plant communities,
        speciation and extinction) cannot be fully tested with pollen data due
        to the extreme difficulty of recognizing species from pollen and spore
        material. 

        We are developing methods for automatically classifying pollen based on
        texture and shape features.  This approach has been validated in distinguishing
        visually similar SEM images of pollen from several different species based 
        on fine scale textural differences.

          
        Publications:    D. Tcheng, A. Nayak, C. Fowlkes, S. Punyasena,
        "Visual recognition software for binary classification and its application to spruce pollen identification"
         PLoS ONE ,
        11(2): e0148879. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0148879.
         [pdf] 
            S. Punyasena, L. Mander, M. Li, W. Mio, C. Fowlkes, Classifying grass pollen using
        high-resolution imaging and the quantitative analysis of surface texture, BSA symposium on
        Bioinformatic and Biometric Methods in Plant Morphology  

           L. Mander, M. Li, W. Mio, C. Fowlkes, S. Punyasena, "Classification of grass
        pollen through the quantitative analysis of surface ornamentation and texture",
         Proc. R. Soc. B.  2013 280 (1770)  [pdf]  

           B. Kong, C. Fowlkes, "Fast Convolutional Sparse Coding", UCI Technical Report, May 2014  [pdf]  
          

        J. Yarkony, C. Fowlkes, "Planar Ultrametrics for Image Segmentation", Proc. of ,
         NIPS ,  Dec. 2015.
         arXiv:1507.02407 
         [pdf] 
             
        Software:    Texture recognition using sparse coding histograms and
        nearest-neighbor classification. This code include a MATLAB demo for classifying grass
        pollen SEM images (dataset from Mander et al 2013) which achieves ~77 percent
        accuracy in species identification. 
         [texture_coding_0.2.tar.gz] 
              Fast sparse convolutional sparse coding implementation from Bailey Kong 
         [github] 

               
        Adaptive software for automated detection, tracking and segmentation
        (with  Cinquin Lab at UCI )  
        While the particular uses of images as an experimental tool in biology vary
        widely, the common tasks of recognition, grouping and tracking are
        ubiquitous. At present, automated image analysis is typically limited
        to large scale projects that can justify the resources required for
        development of custom software. The resulting systems are often brittle
        and require redevelopment each time a slightly different dataset
        appears. We are working on generic tools that can be interactively
        retrained by the end user with the goal of expanding the role of
        quantitative imaging and modeling in biology by “mining the long tail”
        of under-analyzed experimental data.
          
        Publications:
          A. Cinquin, M. Chiang, A. Paz, S. Hallman, O. Yuan, C. Fowlkes, O.
         Cinquin, "Intermittent stem cell cycling balances self-renewal and senescence
         of the C. elegans germ line", in press,   PLoS Genetics  (2016)
              M. Chiang, S. Hallman, A. Cinquin, N. Reyes de Mochel, A. Paz, S. Kawauchi, A. Calof, K. Cho, C. Fowlkes, O. Cinquin,
        "Analysis of in vivo single cell behavior by high throughput, human-in-the-loop segmentation of three-dimensional images",
         BMC Bioinformatics  2015, 16:397  doi:10.1186/s12859-015-0814-7.
         [pdf] 
            S. Hallman, C. Fowlkes, "Oriented Edge Forests for Boundary Detection",
         CVPR , Boston, MA, (June 2015).  arXiv:1412.2066 
         [pdf] 
         [code] 
             
        X. Zhu, C. Vondrick, C. Fowlkes, D. Ramanan, "Do we need more training data?",
         IJCV , DOI 10.1007/s11263-015-0812-2, 2015
         [arXiv:1503.01508] 
         [pdf] 
            S. Wang, C. Fowlkes, "Learning Optimal Parameters for Multi-target Tracking",
         BMVC 2015 
         [pdf] 
            
        S. Hallman, C. Fowlkes, "Oriented Edge Forests for Boundary Detection",
         CVPR , Boston, MA, (June 2015).
         arXiv:1412.4181 
         [pdf] 
         [code] 
             
        Software:    MATLAB code for training template based detectors for detecting cell nuclei in
        fluorescence image stacks. 
         [cell_detector_0.1.tar.gz] 
           MATLAB code for learning and inference in multi-target tracking with pairwise
        interactions between objects.  
         [coming soon] 
              
        
        Gene expression and developmental patterning in Drosophila (with  DePace Lab at Harvard )   
        For a gene to function properly, it must be active in the right place, at the
        right time, and in the right amount.  Changes in any of these features can lead
        to observable differences between individuals and species and in some cases can
        lead to disease. We do not currently understand how the position, timing, and
        amount of gene expression is encoded in DNA sequence. One approach to this
        problem is to compare how gene expression differs between species and to try to
        relate changes in DNA sequence to changes in gene expression. 

        We are developing methods for measuring and comparing gene expression patterns
        at high spatial and temporal resolution between embryos of different species of
        Drosophila.  The methods allow us to control for variation in the size, shape,
        and number of nuclei between embryos.

          
        Publications:
             
         M. Staller, C. Fowlkes, M. Bragdon, J. Estrada, Z. Wunderlich, A. DePace, "A
           gene expression atlas of a bicoid-depleted Drosophila embryo reveals early canalization of cell fate",
            Development  142, p. 587-596, (2015)
            [pdf] 
                      C. Fowlkes, K. Eckenrode, M. Bragdon, M. Meyer, Z. Wunderlich, L.
              Simirenko, C. Hendriks, S. Keranen, C. Henreiquez, M. Biggin, M. Eisen,
              A. DePace, "A conserved  developmental patterning network produces
              quantitatively different output in multiple species of Drosophila,"
       PLoS Genetics ,
      7(10): e1002346, 2011.   [pdf] 
            C. Fowlkes, C. Luengo Hendriks, S. Keränen, G. Weber, O.
        Rübel, M-Y Huang, S. Chatoor, L. Simirenko, A. DePace C.
        Henriquez, A. Beaton, R.  Weiszmann, S. Celniker, B. Hamann, D.
        Knowles, M. Biggin, M. Eisen, J. Malik.
        "Constructing a quantitative spatio-temporal atlas of gene expression in the Drosophila blastoderm",
         Cell , 133(2), p. 364-374, 2008.
         [pdf] 
         [supplement] 
              

        Software:    PointCloudAlign toolkit (v1.0.1) for registering gene expression
        patterns acquired using the  BDTNP 
        PointCloudToolbox image processing pipeline 
         [pcalign.1.01.tar.gz] 
                  
        Quantification of cellular and sub-cellular alignment
        (with  Khine Lab at UCI )
          
        Nano- and microscale topographical cues play critical roles in the
        induction and maintenance of various cellular functions, including morphology,
        adhesion, gene regulation, and communication. Recent studies indicate that
        structure and function at the heart tissue level is exquisitely sensitive to
        mechanical cues at the nano-scale as well as at the microscale level.  We have
        developed image analysis tools coupled with an inexpensive culture platform
        comprised of biomimetic wrinkles that simulate the heart’s complex anisotropic
        and multiscale architecture for facile and robust cardiac cell alignment.  We
        demonstrate the cellular and subcellular alignment of both neonatal mouse
        cardiomyocytes as well as those derived from human embryonic stem cells. By
        mimicking the fibrillar network of the extracellular matrix, this system enables
        monitoring of protein localization in real time and therefore the
        high-resolution study of phenotypic and physiologic responses to in-vivo like
        topographical cues. 

           
        Publications:       C. McCusker, A. Athippozhy, C. Diaz-Castillo, C. Fowlkes,  D.
          Gardiner, S. Voss, "Positional Plasticity in Regenerating Amybstoma
          mexicanum Limbs Is Associated With Cell Proliferation and Pathways of
          Cellular Differentiation",  BMC Developmental Biology , 15:45,
          DOI 10.1186/s12861-015-0095-4 (2015).
           [pdf] 
              A. Chen, D. Lieu, L. Freschauf, V. Lew, H. Sharma, J. Wang, D. Nguyen, I. Karakikes, R. Hajjar, A. Gopinathan, E.
        Botvinick, C.  Fowlkes, R. Li, M. Khine, "Shrink-Film Configurable Multiscale
        Wrinkles for Functional Alignment of Human Embryonic Stem Cells and their
        Cardiac Derivatives", 10.1002/adma.201103463,  Advanced Materials , 2011.
         [pdf] 
            J. Luna, J. Ciriza, M. Ojeda-Garcia, M. Kong, A. Herren, D. Lieu, R. Li, C.  Fowlkes, M. Khine, K. McCloskey,
       "Multi-scale Biomimetic Topography for the Alignment of Neonatal and
       Embryonic Stem Cell-derived Heart Cells",
        Tissue Engineering: Part C  , 17(5), p. 579-588 , 2011
        [pdf] 
           A. Chen, E. Lee, R. Tu, K. Santiago, A. Grosberg, C. Fowlkes, M. Khine, "Integrated Platform for Functional Monitoring of
        Biomimetic Heart Sheets Derived From Human Pluripotent Stem Cells",  Biomaterials ,
35(2):675-683.   [pdf] 
            
        Software:   [alignment quantification tools coming soon]
                   
        Functionally derived shape metrics for analyzing Bat Biosonar (with  Mueller Lab at VT )
           
        Statistical analysis of collections of shapes typically relies on
        some measure of distance between shapes which is specified a priori
        without consideration of the relevance of particular modes of variation
        to biological function.  We are developing methods that leverage
        accurate simulation of acoustical propagation to understand the
        functional importance of aspects of bat ear and noseleaf shape.
        We exploit the adjoint method to efficiently perform a global 
        analysis of the sensitivity of acoustical performance to shape
        features. 

          
        Interactive WebGL visualization of ear geometry and beam pattern  [link] 
                    
        Registration of chick embryo outflow tract dynamics with
        fluorescence microscopy-based protein expression data (with  Rugyoni Lab at OHSU )
          
        It is known that changes in hemodynamic forces affect developmental
        growth of the heart but mechanisms underlying this process are not well
        understood.  We are developing methods that combine dynamic shape data
        collected from the functioning outflow tract in chick embryo along with
        protein expression data (e.g. collagen) in order to try and discover
        correlations between the dynamic shape and underlying tissue
        development.
           
         
          
Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the
authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation.

      
 
     
  </body> 