 SPIN Flyer<body>


 
 
  University of California, Irvine
 
  Irvine Research Unit in Software
(IRUS)   
is proud to sponsor the 
 
 
 
   Software
Process Improvement Network (SPIN)  
 
   Challenges in Applying Earned Value in Software Projects  

  Friday, September 24, 1999  
 
9:00 a.m. - 12:00 noon 
McDonnell Douglas Auditorium 
University of California, Irvine

  

There is a $15.00 charge for non-sponsors.  
Checks should be made payable to  UC Regents</strong>.
  

 No reservations required. 
  
   



 
 
  Featured Speaker:  Ray W. Stratton, President, Management 
Technologies,
 rstratto@flash.net 
 
 

  

 
The use of Earned Value as a project management tool is recognized
world-wide as an industry best practice. Yet in software development
Earned
Value frequently results in frustration as the benefits derived seem
less
than the effort expended.  This unfortunate experience often deters
organizations from further use of Earned Value, or results in less rigorous
implementations leading to even less benefit.  Much of the difficulty in
applying Earned Value to software projects is due to the very nature of
software
development.  Requirements creep, code growth, unclear completion
criteria,
and system integration problems are examples of the challenges in
applying
Earned Value to software development. Additionally, system and software
development has grown in complexity in the twenty-five years since
Earned
Value was first defined.  Still we try to use the original concepts,
unchanged. This talk will address the traps that are often encountered
in
the application of Earned Value.  Recommendations and novel concepts
will be
presented to avoid these traps. Suggested refinements to the basic
Earned
Value concepts will be discussed to reduce the frustration and add to
the
benefit. Level-of-Effort (LOE) measurement, the meaningless method of
recording accomplishment, will be addressed.  Formulas to compensate
Earned
Value indicators for LOE will be shown to reduce the negative impact of
this
measurement scheme.  Time will be allowed for significant discussions,
questions, and challenges to the concepts discussed.
 
  

 Biography: </strong>
  
Mr. Stratton is founder and president of Management Technologies, a
program
management training and consulting firm.  He has taught Technical
Performance Measurement, Earned Value, Program Management Metrics and
Software Project Management to US and foreign governments, educational
institutions, and a wide range of industries.  He is an instructor with
the
UCI University Extension, and CSULB's Systems and Software Engineering
Forum
for Training (SSEFT). He is also a member and seminar instructor for 
the Program Management Institute (PMI).
 
  

Ray W. Stratton has over twenty years experience as a software program
manager in the development of radar, communication, and command and
control
projects.  Previously he designed, developed, tested, and delivered
real-time man-in-the-loop sensor based computer systems for a variety of
military customers.  He is a member of the Cal Poly Computer Science
Industry Advisory Council and has also participated in the Cal Poly
College
of Engineering Dean's Advisory Council.  He is also a member of the
Defense
Systems Management College Alumni Association (DSMCAA).
He holds Masters and Bachelors degrees in Electronic Engineering from
California State Polytechnic University, Pomona.
 

 
  Coordinator:  </strong> Cynthia Parish, 
 CSULB / SSEFT ,
 cparish@uces.csulb.edu    

 


 
UCI Maps and Directions  to meeting are available.
  

 Next Meeting: </strong>
  
Date: Friday, October 29, 1999 
Topic: Key Aspects of Continuous Process Improvement - Experiences
       and Lessons Learned

 
Speaker: Don Dortenzo, Software Productivity Consortium
 dortenzo@software.org  
 
Coordinator: Leitha Purcell, Northrop Grumman,
 purcele@mail.northgrum.com 
 

The Irvine Research Unit in Software wishes to thank its
 corporate
sponsors :
 
 
 
 Sustaining:</strong>
  
The Boeing Company * IBM * Microsoft Corporation * Northrop Grumman
Corporation
 Raytheon Company * Sun Microsystems * TRW 
 
 
 Supporting:</strong>
  
    Beckman Coulter * FileNet Corporation * Printronix, Inc. 
    Continuus Software Corporation * Hewlett-Packard
 
 
 
 
For further information on
 SPIN  or
 IRUS,    contact  Debra
Brodbeck 
at (949) 824-2260,
 brodbeck@ics.uci.edu 
 

     
  
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science  
University of California, Irvine  CA 92697-3425   
</body> 