 press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Press releases  


     
 Press release 

 
 





  January 9,  2015</strong>  Two ICS professors honored as ACM Fellows</strong>  



   
Jan. 9, 2015

  
The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), the world’s largest educational and 

scientific computing society, has announced that two professors at UC Irvine’s Donald 

Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences — Nikil Dutt and Gene Tsudik — 

have been named 2014 ACM Fellows.

  
Established in 1993, the ACM Fellows Program recognizes its top members for 

outstanding accomplishments in computing and information technology. This year, only 

47 of ACM’s more than 100,000 members worldwide were named fellows. The total 

number of fellows is limited to 1 percent of ACM overall membership.

  
ACM President Alexander L. Wolf acknowledged the advances made by this year’s 

ACM Fellows. “Our world has been immeasurably improved by the impact of their 

innovations. We recognize their contributions to the dynamic computing technologies 

that are making a difference to the study of computer science, the community of 

computing professionals, and the universe of consumers and citizens who are benefiting 

from their creativity and commitment.”


  


Nikil Dutt is a Chancellor's Professor of computer science, cognitive sciences, and EECS 

at UCI. He was honored as an ACM Fellow for his contributions to embedded 

architecture exploration, and service to electronic design automation and embedded 

systems. He received a Ph.D. from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 

1989. His research interests span topics in embedded systems, electronic design 

automation, computer architecture, and brain-inspired computing. He has received 

numerous best paper awards at premier conferences and is coauthor of seven books. He 

served as Editor-in-Chief of the premier journal ACM Transactions on Design 

Automation of Electronic Systems (2003-2008) and currently serves on the ACM 

Publications Board. He is a Fellow of the IEEE, and recipient of the International 

Federation for Information Processing’s Silver Core Award.  


  

Gene Tsudik is a Chancellor's Professor of computer science at UCI. He earned the ACM 

fellow rank for contributions to Internet security and privacy. Gene Tsudik obtained his 

Ph.D. in Computer Science from USC in 1991. Before coming to UCI in 2000, he was at 

IBM Zurich Research Laboratory (1991-1996) and USC’s Information Sciences Institute 

(1996-2000). Over the years, his research interests have included numerous topics in 

security, privacy and applied cryptography. He has co-authored over 200 refereed 

research publications and several patents. From 2009 to 2015, he was the Editor-in-Chief 

of ACM Transactions on Information and Systems Security  — the premier archival 

journal for security and privacy research. He was awarded a Fulbright Lectureship in 

2007 (at the University of Rome) and the rank of IEEE Fellow — in 2012.

  
ACM will formally recognize the 2014 Fellows at its annual awards banquet in June in San Francisco.


  

 About the UC Irvine Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences: 
As the only computing-focused school in the University of California system, the Bren School is providing computer science and information technology leadership for the 21st century through its innovative and broad curricula, research and development of emerging technologies, and collaborations to address societal concerns. For more information, visit: 
 www.ics.uci.edu .

  

 About the University of California, Irvine:  
Located in coastal Orange County, near a thriving employment hub in one of the nation’s safest cities, UC Irvine was founded in 1965. One of only 62 members of the Association of American Universities, it’s ranked first among U.S. universities under 50 years old by the London-based Times Higher Education. The campus has produced three Nobel laureates and is known for its academic achievement, premier research, innovation and anteater mascot. UC Irvine has more than 28,000 students and offers 192 degree programs. It’s Orange County’s second-largest employer, contributing $4.3 billion annually to the local economy.



  
 Contact:   
Ted B. Kissell  
(949) 824-6469   tkissell@uci.edu 

   
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 