 CS284A:  Representations &amp; Algorithms for Molecular Biology:
Lecture schedule <body>

 CS284A:  Representations &amp; Algorithms for Molecular Biology 


 Syllabus, Readings and Lectures Notes 
   Introduction to Computational biology, Molecular Biology and
Genomics. Sept 24, 2009 

  reading 
  L. Hunter.  Molecular Biology for
Computer Scientists . In Artificial Intelligence and Molecular
Biology, 1993. 
  Human Genome
Project: Frequently Asked Questions 

   A Quick Introduction to Elements of Biology , a primer by Alvis
Brazma et al.



   lecture notes 
   Lecture 1: Introduction to Molecular Biology and Genomics 
   resources 
   Genbank  
  USCS Genome Browser  
  Ensembl Genome Browser  
  SWISS-PROT  
  Protein Data Bank  
  PubMed   
  List of Molecular Biology Databases (from Nucleic Acids Research)

   S-Star Bioinformatics Online Course Schedule, a
collection of video primers.
  FAQ on bioinformatics . 
   Online courses related to bioinformatics and computational
biology  

      Gene Discovery 
   Open reading frame,
    geometric distribution, hypothesis testing, p-value 
   Pattern discovery, regulatory motifs 
      Lecture3.pdf 
       Reading:  How
     does DNA sequence motif discovery work?, Patrik D'haeseleer,
     Nature Biotechnology, 24, 959-961 (2006)   
      Positional weight matrix, probabilistic model of motif discovery,
  Expectation-Maximization algorithm 
      motif_mixture.pdf  (note that:
     this note is intended for students who wish to understand
     detailed theoretical derivations of the EM-algorithm, only the
     first eight pages and materials covered in class are required)
         Reading:   Fitting a Mixture Model by Expectation Maximization to Discover
       Motifs in Bipolymers TL Bailey and C Elkan, UCSD  
       Sequence alignment, dynamic programming, Smith-Waterman algorithm 
     Local and global sequence alignments 
       A
    brief introduction to BLAST 
       NCBI BLAST Server 
      Markov chains and hidden Markov models (HMM)  
    Lecture notes:  HMM  
        An Introduction to Hidden Markov Models for Biological
	Sequences  A Krogh, in S. Salzberg et al., eds.,
	Computational Methods in Molecular Biology,
	1998. Elsevier. 
  HMM demo matlab code 
     </body> 