 ramesh jain spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Ramesh Jain spotlight 

 
 

  Experiential Expert </strong>
 
 
  
Ramesh Jain
 
 
Ramesh Jain, former professor of embedded and experiential systems at Georgia Institute of Technology, was recently named the first Donald Bren Professor of Information and Computer Sciences at UC Irvine.
 Jain is a renowned pioneer in multimedia information systems, image databases, machine vision and intelligent systems, a collection of work that is classed as experiential computing – exploring information through the senses. 
 “We are extremely pleased to have Dr. Jain join ICS,” said Debra J. Richardson, dean of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. “He is an exceptionally talented scientist who brings to the position an outstanding reputation, a strong commitment to teaching and a passion for impacting industry as well as creating new research opportunities.” 
 Jain has been named a fellow by the Association of Computing Machinery (ACM), the Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the American Association for Artifi cial Intelligence (AAAI), the Society for Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE) and the International Association for Pattern Recognition (IAPR). In 1999, he was a fi nalist for the prestigious Ernst and Young Entrepreneur of the Year award. 
 
 Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.
 
 Active in industry, Jain has founded three companies, managed them in initial stages and then turned them over to professional management. Most recently, he was the co-founder, CEO and CTO of PRAJA Inc. located in San Diego. Prior to PRAJA, he was the founding CEO and chairman of Virage, a San Mateo-based company developing systems for media management solutions and visual information management.  
 He also was the founder and chairman of ImageWare Inc. that provided solutions for surface modeling, reverse engineering rapid prototyping and inspection. He serves as adviser to several companies. 
 “I am very pleased to be joining ICS at such an exciting time in the school’s history,” said Jain. “Technology is in transition – in the process of transforming an information society to an experiential society, which will require systems and applications that allow us to immerse ourselves in rich sets of multimedia data and information that we can directly observe, and I am eager to continue my research along side some of technology’s greatest contributors.” 
 Jain received his bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from Nagpur University in 1969 and earned his doctorate in electronics and communications engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology in 1975.  
 He comes to UCI from the Georgia Institute of Technology where he held the Rhesa “Ray” S. Farmer, Jr. Distinguished Chair in Embedded Experiential Systems and was named a GRA Eminent Scholar. At Georgia Tech, Jain founded the Experiential Systems Group, his fourth signifi cant research laboratory. Other academic posts include University of Hamburg (1976-1978), Wayne State University (1979-1982), University of Michigan (1982-1993) and the University of California, San Diego (1993-1999). 
 The Donald Bren Foundation created and continues to fund the Donald Bren Endowment to help UCI attract and retain the nation’s foremost scholars. In addition to the Donald Bren Professors, the endowment provides support for Claire Trevor Professors at the Claire Trevor School of the Arts. 
 To learn more about Ramesh and his research  check out his blog.  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 