 
 
 
	 
		<title>Parallel construction of quadtrees and quality triangulations 
		 
		 
	 

	<body>
		 
			 Parallel construction of quadtrees and quality triangulations 

			 
				  Marshall Wayne Bern ,
 David Eppstein ,
and  Shang-Hua Teng  
				  Int. J. Computational Geometry &amp; Applications    9(6):517&#8211;532, Dec 1999  
				 Tech. report 614 ,  Massachusetts Inst. Tech., Lab. for Computer Science ,  1994  
				  Proc. 3rd Worksh. Algorithms and Data Structures (WADS 1993)  ,  Lecture Notes in Computer Science  709,  Frank K. H. A. Dehne ,
 Jörg-Rudiger Sack ,
 Nicola Santoro ,
and  Sue Whitesides , ed.,  Springer-Verlag ,  Aug 1993, pp. 188&#8211;199  
				  Mathematical Reviews  94j:68291  

				 Cited by: 
				 
					  Optimal parallel all-nearest-neighbors using the well-separated pair decomposition  
					  Algorithms for dynamic closest pair and $n$-body potential fields  
					  A Delaunay based numerical method for three dimensions: generation, formulation, and partition  
					  An optimal algorithm for closest pair maintenance  
					  Dealing with higher dimensions: the well-separated pair decomposition and its applications  
					  An optimal algorithm for approximate nearest neighbor searching in fixed dimensions  
					  Nearly linear time approximation schemes for Euclidean TSP and other geometric problems  
					  Provably good partitioning and load balancing algorithms for parallel adaptive $N$-body simulation  
					  Polynomial time approximation schemes for Euclidean TSP and other geometric problems  
					  Geometric searching in walkthrough animations with weak spanners in real time  
					  SIFFEA: scalable integrated framework for finite element method  
					  Unstructured mesh generation: Theory, practice, and perspectives  
					  Data generation for geometric algorithms on non-uniform distributions  
					  New Results on Geometric Spanners and Their Applications  
					  Efficient expected-case algorithms for planar point location  
					  Parallel neighborhood modelling  
					  Integer-coordinate crystalline meshes  
					  Introduction to integer-coordinate crystalline meshes  
					  Closest-point problems simplified on the RAM  
					  A polynomial time approximation scheme for the problem of interconnecting highways  
					  Parallel Delaunay refinement: algorithms and analyses  
					  A time efficient Delaunay refinement algorithm  
					  On the efficiency of nearest neighbor searching with data Clustered in lower dimensions  
					  An efficient point location method for visualization in Large unstructured grids  
					  Dynamic compressed hyperoctrees with application to the $N$-body problem  
					  A time-optimal Delaunay refinement algorithm in two dimensions  
				 

				 
					[ D. Eppstein publications ]
					[ Citation database ]
					[ Documents ]
				 
			 

			 
				 Fano  Experimental Web Server,
				 D. Eppstein ,
				 School of Information &amp; Computer Science ,
				 UC Irvine 
			 

			   
			   
		 
	</body>
 
