 Arthur Asuncion's Official Site: Blog<body>
     Arthur Asuncion         
	     --   --   --   --   --   --   --   
	   Personal Blog</strong> 
         
     
	
	  Tuesday, June 14, 2005
          
       
         
            "Have a Great Summer"    
        
           
               Here's a light-hearted article that I wrote:  </strong>  "Have a Great Summer" </strong>Arthur Asuncion  I still remember writing the phrase, "have a great summer," over and over again in my friends' yearbooks when I was in elementary school. In junior high, I became more sophisticated and started writing two or three witty parting sentences in addition to that first pithy phrase. Now, in college, it takes me an entire article to say farewell to those who must leave UCI.  So without further ado, here are all the parting thoughts that I have compiled for graduating students, many of whom are already looking ahead to the future and starting to forget about their UCI experiences:  Don't forget all of the knowledge that you learned at UCI. After all, you spent a considerable amount of money and time to acquire this knowledge. I suggest that you read through all the notes from your previous classes just to see all the pain that you went through to earn your degree. You will breathe a sigh of relief that it is all over.  Don't forget to stay in touch with your UCI friends. Get involved with the Alumni Association after you graduate. Every year, they put together a lot of interesting events, most notably Lauds &amp; Laurels. Come back to UCI every once in a while to watch an athletic event, or to revisit some old student clubs of which you were once a part, or to see all of the new unfamiliar buildings that will be around Ring Road once all of the construction is finished.  Don't forget to tell everybody that you graduated from UCI. We all need to do our best to improve the Anteater image to the outside world. We've already improved a lot; let's remain competitive with surrounding universities. In fact, the Daily Bruin once proposed to change their mascot to the  fire-ant  in order to ward off the pesky UCI Anteater. Don't be like my friend who told me that he has never worn any UCI apparel and will probably never do so. UCI's image is directly correlated to the value of your college degree.  Don't forget to save a copy of the Irvine Review, that pesky conservative journal that has always inspired vigorous discussions. Who knows? Maybe in 10 years, that paper will be on par with the New U.  Don't forget to thank God for all of the blessings you have: for living in America (in abundance), for having a family, and for achieving a college degree from a respectable university. Ninety percent of the people in this world would do anything to trade places with you.  I also happen to know a number of graduate students who have recently finished their doctorate or are preparing for their final defense. Here is my humble advice to them: use your influence wisely and carefully. Many people will listen to you just because you have a Ph.D. Keep an open mind to new theories, especially those theories that may fall outside current scientific consensus (like intelligent design). A professor once told me that if you have views that are three standard deviations outside of the mainstream, you are probably a nut or the next Nobel Prize winner.  And so, dear readers, this collection of thoughts is coming to a close, just as an important chapter of life is ending for many of those that we know. There is but one pithy phrase left to utter. As I wax more poetic: "Have a great summer."   
           
            1:42 PM  
		     
       
      
      
      
	
	
	  Saturday, June 04, 2005
          
       
         
            Goldwater Scholarship    
        
           
                 2005 Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship </strong>      I would like to thank everybody who has helped me in the application process and all the professors who wrote letters for me; I could not have won without your support. Dr. Audrey DeVore, from the  Scholarship Opportunites Program , was especially helpful. Here is my  picture  from the SOP web site. Here is coverage from the  New University  (another New U news brief  here ). Here is a  press release from Today at UCI . The Irvine World News (affiliated with OC Register) and the  Daily Pilot  (affiliated with LA Times) also wrote short pieces regarding the scholarship recipients.  UCI did really well this year in terms of scholarships. We tied the campus record for the number of Goldwater scholarships won in one year. Congratulations to all of the other recipients.  If you are a freshman or a sophmore in a science major who would be interested in applying for the Goldwater scholarship, I highly suggest that you go talk to Audrey in the SOP office. If you have a good GPA and have done some research, you have a very good chance of winning this scholarship. Take a step of faith and apply. I know some people here at UCI who are very smart (far more advanced than me) and who are capable of winning; however, they did not take the time to apply for the Goldwater.   
           
            1:12 AM  
		     
       
      
      
      
	
	 
	  Archives: 
	  
	   
   	   February 2004    March 2004   September 2004   October 2004   November 2004   January 2005   February 2005   June 2005   July 2005   April 2006   May 2006   April 2007   July 2007   May 2008   October 2008   November 2008   December 2008   March 2009   April 2009   May 2009   August 2009   
     
     Copyright 
 ©  Arthur Asuncion 2006. This is a personal website which is not endorsed by the University. By using this site, you signify that Arthur Asuncion is not liable for anything. Last Modified 4/2/06.  
    </body> 