 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  May 13,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         UCI ranks among Top 20 on Semantic Scholar Insights' List</strong>
          
                    
UC Irvine has been ranked 17 out of 500 influential U.S. computer science schools on the newly generated  Semantic Scholar Insights ’ list.

  
The list, developed by the  Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence  in Seattle uses machine learning techniques to measure the influence of computer science programs’ published papers throughout the country. It also ranks paper authors and institutions.

  
UC Irvine racks up nearly 8,900 highly influential citations, “where the cited publication has a significant impact on the citing publication, making it easier to understand how publications build upon and relate to each other,” according to Semantic Scholar. Using the Semantic Scholar algorithm, UC Irvine’s computer science influence beats out the likes of UCLA, Harvard and CalTech.

  
The insights list rivals Google Scholar, PubMed and other online search engines with artificial intelligence methods, though automatically inferring influence using quantitative methods can be tricky.

  
Influence is a difficult thing to measure, with the traditional method being counting citations. But, as a   Science  article  observes, not all citations are created equal. Semantic Scholar attempts “a more direct measurement of a paper's actual influence on future research,” the article says.

  
“Semantic Scholar tries to reveal what's ‘hot’ in the field by measuring the ‘velocity’ and ‘acceleration’ of bodies of work, measurements of how rapidly others are citing certain work, and whether that is trending,” it adds.



  
   UCI ranks among Top 20 on Semantic Scholar Insights' List    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Helping people, improving lives through informatics

              
                Next &gt; 
                 Ito to lead newly funded UCI project aimed at improving connected learning opportunities
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 