 
	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                             
        	
		
		    
  
            
 
 
 
	 Calico 
	 ...an intuitive sketch-based design environment for use on touch-based devices... 
	  
	   
 
	 PorchLight 
	 ...a desktop bug tracker interface designed to support effective bug triaging... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Development 
	 ...a cloud IDE for building software with a crowd... 
	  
	   
 
	 CodeExchange 
	 ...supporting iterative internet-scale code search... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Debugging 
	 How hundreds of workers can help locate faults in software?  
	  
	   
 
	 CrowdDesign 
	 ...crowd sourced software designs [...] 
	  
	   
 

             
            
             
                  Welcome 			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design. 
		              
         
                
         
			 
            	 	
			 
     
         Sep 12  11  
          Welcome Michele!                     
     

				
     
         We are very excited to welcome  Michele Bonazza  to the laboratory. He is joining us for four months as a visitor from the University of Padova, Italy, and will be developing an Android version of Calico (!) 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Welcome Michele!   
         
     
  												  
     
         Sep 12  11  
          Welcome Christian!                     
     

				
     
         We are very excited to welcome  Christian Adriano  to the laboratory. He is joining us as a new Ph.D. student from Sao Paolo, Brazil. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Welcome Christian!   
         
     
  												  
     
         Jun 12  2  
          ICSE 2012                     
     

				
     
         Four members of the SDCL, Lee Martie, Alfredo Motta, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek, will attend ICSE 2012.  Lee will present in the MSR Challenge, Alfredo in the Doctoral Symposium, and Thomas in the ICSE main research track. 
        
           Posted in    Travel   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on ICSE 2012   
         
     
  												  
     
         May 12  18  
          ISR Research Forum                     
     

				
     
         The SDCL was an active participant in the  ISR Research Forum , with numerous demos given during the open house and lots of good connections being made.  All in all a fun day, especially with the great feedback we received on our projects. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on ISR Research Forum   
         
     
  												  
     
         Apr 12  16  
          Brazilian collaborators visit                     
     

				
     
         SDCL friends Claudia Werner, Leo Murta, and Marcelo Schots visit us from UFRJ in Rio and UFF in Niteroi this week, exchanging research ideas, exploring collaborations, and working on a joint paper. 
   
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Brazilian collaborators visit   
         
     
  												  
     
         Apr 12  2  
          Welcome Alfredo Motta                     
     

				
     
         We welcome  Alfredo Motta  to our lab; Alfredo is visiting us for four months from Politecnico di Milano, and is exploring how designers can be assisted with feedback about their designs in progress. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Welcome Alfredo Motta   
         
     
  												  
     
         Mar 12  31  
          Papers accepted                     
     

				
     
         Congrats to Lee Martie for getting a paper accepted in the MSR 2012 Challenge track, and Nick Mangano for getting a paper accepted in JASE [ link ].  Well done! 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Papers accepted   
         
     
  												  
     
         Mar 12  31  
          Marian Petre visit                     
     

				
     
         Marian Petre from The Open University visited us for this week, working on a book to be published out of the SPSD 2010 workshop and generally giving us feedback on all of our projects. 
   
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Marian Petre visit   
         
     
  												  
     
         Mar 12  7  
          Welcome Thomas LaToza                     
     

				
     
         We are very excited to welcome  Thomas LaToza  to the laboratory. He will be joining us this Fall from CMU, where he just completed his Ph.D. (congrats!). 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Welcome Thomas LaToza   
         
     
  												  
     
         Mar 12  2  
          SDCL hosts SCALE                     
     

				
     
         Yesterday and today, the SDCL hosted the SCALE meeting for our collaborative grant with CMU and UNL.  Fourteen students presented their work and received feedback from the group as a whole, with various new ideas and joint projects emerging. 
   
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on SDCL hosts SCALE   
         
     
  												 	    
         
          « Previous Page  
          Next Page »  
          
     
    
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			      
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 