 Alderis@UCI - Analysis Language for Distributed, Embedded, and Real-time Systems<body>

		 
		
				 
				
						 Alderis@UCI 
						 Analysis Language for Distributed, Embedded, and Real-time Systems. 
				
				 
				
				   Downloads  
								  Publications  
								  DRE Systems  
								  AMBA  
								  Links  
								  Home  
								
				   
				
						 Copyright 
						
						 The following publications are covered by copyright. They are provided for personal use only and may not be distributed. We do not own the copyright of published papers... 
												
						 
						
								 DREAM 
								 ACES 
								 FORGE 
						
						 
						
						  
				
				 
				
				 
				
						 Publications directly related to Alderis and  DREAM  

						 
							   Journal 
								  Gabor Madl, Sherif Abdelwahed, Douglas C. Schmidt:  Verifying Distributed Real-time Properties of Embedded Systems via Graph Transformations and Model Checking , Real-Time Systems, Special Issue: Invited Papers from the 25th IEEE International Real-Time Systems Symposium, Volume 33, Numbers 1-3, Pages 77-100, July 2006. Bibtex . 
								 Conference 
								 Gabor Madl, Sherif Abdelwahed:  Model-based Analysis of Distributed Real-time Embedded System Composition , Proceedings of EMSOFT 2005.  Presentation .  Bibtex . 
								 Gabor Madl, Sherif Abdelwahed, Gabor Karsai:  Automatic Verification of Component-Based Real-Time CORBA Applications , Proceedings of the 25th IEEE International Real-Time Systems Symposium, pp. 231-240, Lisbon, Portugal, December, 2004.  Presentation .  Bibtex . 
								 Workshop 
								  Gabor Madl, Nikil Dutt:  Domain-specific Modeling of Power Aware Distributed Real-time Embedded Systems , Proceedings of the 6th International Workshop on Embedded Computer Systems: Architectures, Modeling, and Simulation (SAMOS) 2006.  Bibtex . 
								 Technical Report 
								  Gabor Madl, Nikil Dutt:  Tutorial for the Open-Source DREAM Tool ,  Performance comparison with the Uppaal model checker and the Verimag IF toolset , Draft v1.1, CECS technical report, 2006.  Bibtex . 
								 Gabor Madl, Sherif Abdelwahed:  Formal Verification of Distributed Preemptive Real-time Scheduling , ISIS Technical Report, 2005.  Bibtex . 
								 Poster 
								 Gabor Madl, Nikil Dutt, Sherif Abdelwahed:  Distributed Real-time Embedded Analysis Method - DREAM ™ , Poster, Emsoft 2005. 
								 Gabor Madl, Tivadar Szemethy, Sherif Abdelwahed, Gabor Karsai, Janos Sztipanovits:  Embedded System Verification via Platform Modeling, Model Transformations and Model Checking , Poster, ITR review, UC Berkeley, November, 2004. 
								 Other papers in submission... 
							  
		
		 
		
		 
		
				 
						
								© All the material published on this website is copyrighted. All rights reserved.    

				
						 
		
		 


</body> 