 Mentorship Program – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         

                     
                         
                             
                                       Home                                            
                                      Mentorship Program 
                             
                         
                     

                 
                     
                 
                     

                                            
                         

                                
                                
                                 Every year WICS hosts a mentorship program.  We pair up upperclassmen mentors with underclassmen in ICS.  Our mentors provide not just tutoring, but moral support and general guidance.  Many of our mentors and mentees have become good friends and stay in touch long after our program ends!  Mentees benefit significantly for having experienced and relatable guidance in their first years, and our mentors can stand out to companies by working with our organization. 
 Our interest form for becoming a mentor or mentee is now closed! If you are currently in the program and want to know who are the mentors please click here. 
 If you are interested in becoming a mentor or mentee please wait until applications are open for the following year! 
    WICS Mentorship Mixer 2013    
   

                                  

                                
                                  

                             

                            
                            
                         
                 
             

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 
</body> 