 CompSci 230 @ UCI 
 
  CompSci 230 - Winter 2011: Distributed Systems  
  Prof. Nalini
Venkatasubramanian    
  Announcements:  
  
 Please check this page frequently for important announcements regarding course
  work          - IMPORTANT!     
    
    
 
	Grades:     If your score is 
"NR" in Student Access, please don't worry. There was a problem with the reporting. 
It will be fixed on Monday (March 28).   

     
	Mar 14:   Make sure your group chooses a slot for demo 
presentation. It is required for all groups. Please access the link and choose a 
slot:    
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_oYw8q33dw75o9eVZtBp1oN-Og57vI2T-sftelVv_Pg/edit?hl=en&amp;authkey=CMXR6v0N#  .  

  
  
 
	Mar 14:   The instructor is available tomorrow for project  
consultations
 from 2:30 to 3:30.  
  
  
 
	Mar 11:     The instructor changed a few grading policies. Your midterms were
  reviewed and regraded. Check new grades   here  . 
  
       
	Mar 11:     All groups are 
	scheduled to present demo with the instructor at her office on Wed/Thu/Fri 
	(Mar 16-18). Each group is given a 30 minute slot. Please access the link 
	and choose a slot:    
	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_oYw8q33dw75o9eVZtBp1oN-Og57vI2T-sftelVv_Pg/edit?hl=en&amp;authkey=CMXR6v0N#  . 
  
       
	Mar 11:     Groups 9 to 17 are scheduled to present on Tuesday (Mar 15) 3:30-5:00. 
  Please send presentation files before Tuesday 11:30 to the reader. Make sure you will send before 11:30 so that the reader 
	will be 
  able to post them to the website.  

       
	Mar 5:     Although the instructor is travelling, next week we still have two
  classes as usual. Leila will come and deliver the content of distributed databases. So, for those who wish to take a look at
  the midterms, please come see the reader on Wednesday (03/09) from 3:00 to 5:00 -- sorry about that.  

       
	Mar 3:     Check the schedule in "Presentation Schedule" (left side). 

  Access presentation files by clicking your project's name. Quickly let the 
	reader know if there is something wrong with your presentation file.
	
     
	Mar 1:     The instructor is 
	available for project discussion today - 2:00 to 3:00. 
	
       
	Feb 28:     If you wish to 
	review your midterm, please come see the reader next Tuesday (3/7), 3:30 to 
	4:30, at DBH 2099. 
  
       Feb 
	28:     Please, check the schedule   here  .  
  There are 8 groups wishing to present on 
  Thursday (3/3). These groups need to send the reader the presentation files on this Thursday, before the class at least 3 hours. 
  The other groups will present in the finals week. Please quickly let the instructor and the reader know 
  if your group wants to change the plan. 

       Feb 
	24:   Our schedule will be changed since the instructor is busy. 
  Please prepare a project presentation ( 5 slides ) to present (at two classes probably next week). 
  You do not need to have your full results in your presentation. The goal is just to let other groups in the class know what 
  your group is doing. 
  
    In your presentation, please clearly state (1) your problem you are solving 
	and its motivations, (2) related works, 
  (3) your solutions for the problem (initial ideas are also fine), and (4) what your final results will be.     The presentation schedule for groups is listed 
	  here  . 
	To save time, all of the groups will send the reader the slides (.ppt 
	please)  before the class 
	at least 3 hours . The slides will be posted on the website,
	and then used for your presentation in the class.    
  
       Feb 
	24:     Check your midterm grade   here  . 

       Feb 
	15:     Next week, the content covered is Mobile Middleware. 

       Feb 
	15:     Prepare/present 
	your project (5 slides max) at week 10 in the class. 
  Later, your group will be scheduled to show the demo with the instructor. 
  
       Feb 
	15:     Please download the review slides   here  .  
	Lecture Set 5 (Fault tolerance in Distributed Systems) is updated. 
	Please be on time for MIDTERM. Make sure you bring your ID.     Feb 
	10:     Thursday, Feb 17: 
	 MIDTERM  (closed-books/closed-notes) - Click   here   
	to download a sample exam  . 
  
       Feb 
	10:     Summary set 5 due Tuesday, Feb 15 11:59 PM: Fault Tolerance and Reliability.      Feb 
	5:     Survey paper for your project due 
	end of Week 6  (Feb 12, 11:59 PM)  (Sunday, Feb 13, 11:59 PM). 
	
       Feb 
	3:     Summary set 4 due 
	end of Week 5 (Feb 6, 11:59 PM): Messaging and Group Communication in Distributed Systems - Click   here   
	to see the set of papers. Please DO NOT SUBMIT homework late  . 

       Feb 
	1:     Please check the list of class projects   here  .
  Contact the reader if there is something wrong with your project's title and your team members. If you have not sent your project proposal, please send it to us now. 
     

       Jan 
	27:     Summary set 3 due 
	end of Week 4 (Jan 30, 11:59 PM): Distributed Deadlocks, Distributed File Systems, 
	Process Migration , Processing and Load Balancing - Click   here   
	to see the set of papers  . 

       Jan 
	20:     Summary set 2 due 
	end of Week 3 (Jan 23, 11:59 PM): Remote Procedure Call, Mutual Exclusion 
	and Leader Election - Click   here   
	to see the set of papers  . 

       Jan 13:   Several projects (sensor networks, clustering schemes) added at
    here  . 

       Jan 08:   Some specific projects
  are listed   here  . 

       Jan 07:   2 things due end of Week 2 (Jan 16, 11:59 PM) -- PDF only, send to both 
  the instructor and the reader:
    A short project proposal (Title, Members, What you plan to do, Rough timeline).
    Summary set 1 (Virtual Time and Global State in Distributed Systems - Click   here   to see the set of papers). 
     

       Jan 03:   A tentative list of high level areas 
  for class projects has been posted. 
  Talk to the instructor if you are interested in any of these areas or any others. A list of specific projects will be available soon. 

       Jan 03:    MIDTERM  -- The exam will be closed-books/closed-notes 
  with no reference materials permitted. 

       Jan 03:  
	 FINAL PROJECT and DEMO  will be held 
  during the final week. 
      
  Course Description:    
    CompSci 230 - Distributed Systems:    This course
discusses concepts, techniques and issues in developing distributed systems in
large scale networked environments. The course will cover theoretical as well as
system level issues in the design and implementation of distributed systems.
    
   Motivation and Goals:    
    CompSci 230 - Distributed Systems :    Advances in
networking, communication, storage and computing technologies coupled with
emerging novel application areas is enabling the widespread use of large scale
distributed computing systems. These systems exhibit constant evolution as new
applications place specialized requirements from the computing and communication
infrastructure. Many applications provide QoS (Quality of Service) parameters
that define the extent to which performance specifications such as
responsiveness, reliability, resource utilization, security and
cost-effectiveness may be violated. These requirements are often implemented via
resource management mechanisms in the middleware. Distributed computing
frameworks enable the modular connection of software components to manage the
resources of an open distributed system; it can be used to constrain the global
behavior of the distributed system to ensure safety while providing
cost-effective utilization of resources. This course will cover issues in
developing distributed systems that provides distributed application
requirements while ensuring effective system utilization.     
   Prerequisites:    
   Undergraduate level
course in operating systems and networks. A prior course on computer networking
is desirable. Working knowledge of Java is desirable.     
   Class Schedule:    
    Lecture:    
Tuesdays/Thursdays 3:30-4:50  in DBH 1500     
   Grading Policy:    
     Homeworks (30%):  3 homeworks (weekly paper summaries), 
randomly selected each worth 10% each.  
     Midterm (30%):  Tentatively scheduled for end of Week 6.   
    Class Project (40%):  Includes project proposal, survey paper and final project demonstration and report.   
   Course Contact Information:    
   Your suggestions,
  comments and constructive criticisms are most welcome. Please use the
  address(es) below to contact the instructor or the reader.  
    
    
 
    
         Contact        
     
         Name        
     
         Email        
     
         Location        
     
         Office Hours           
        Instructor     
     
        Nalini
      Venkatasubramanian     
     
         nalini@ics.uci.edu      
     
        BH
      2086     
     
        By
      appointment        
        Reader     
     
        Ngoc
      Do     
     
         nmdo@uci.edu      
     
        BH
      2099     
     
        By
      appointment         
     
       </body> 