 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Features  


     
  

 
 

 ICS receives Excellence in Promoting Women in Undergraduate Computing Award from NCWIT
  May 3, 2016  
  
  The Google-funded NEXT award provides $100,000 for ICS to continue working with underrepresented groups to pursue technology-related degrees.
  
 



  
The Donald Bren School of Information and Computers Sciences (ICS) has received the 2016 Excellence in Promoting Women in Undergraduate Computing Award from The National Center for Women and Information Technology (NCWIT). ICS was recognized for the school’s dedication to recruiting and retaining women in information science programs.

  
Funded by Google, the $100,000 grand prize is awarded annually under the NCWIT Extension Services Transformation (NEXT) Award banner to “reflect and reward practices that NCWIT recognizes as having the most significant impact on the long-term goal of increasing the number of women in information technology and other computing-related fields,” according to the  NEXT Awards website .

  
NCWIT  lauds  ICS in particular “for its extensive internal and external outreach efforts, as well as the commitment to evaluation of students to consistently ensure that efforts are properly directed.”

  
“In addition, the focus on developing interdisciplinary courses for non-majors strengthened the application. The raw increase in women students along with the cultural changes described in the application are sustainable, impressive and noteworthy. Finally, the effort to seek external funding from industry partners and share results via conference papers was particularly notable,” they add.

  
A dynamic team of ICS faculty and staff collaborated in applying for the award, including Assistant Dean for Access and Inclusion Sharnnia Artis, Director of Development Antigone Blackwell, Professor Amelia Regan, Director of Communications Matt Miller, Associate Director of Student Affairs Neha Rawal, Professor Emeritus and former Dean Debra J. Richardson, and Professor Nalini Venkatasubramanian.

  
"We're honored to receive this award in recognition of the school’s hard work in diversifying our student population in our computing program. We look forward to building on our success and continuing to do our part in encouraging underrepresented groups to pursue technology-related degrees," Artis says.

  
Richardson notes the sustained effort of ICS to practice evidence-based recruitment and retention strategies, often in partnership with NCWIT, which it joined as a hub for women’s participation in the information sciences in 2004. “I am very proud that ICS has won NCWIT's Excellence in Promoting Women in Undergraduate Computing Award – the Grand Prize in the organization's NEXT Awards,” she says. “Over the last decade, we have increased the raw number of women in our undergraduate majors from 106—when women made up just 11.6 percent of our majors—to 566, or 24 percent.”

  
With this accomplishment in mind, Richardson recognizes that there’s still more to be done to address the pipeline of women in computing and technology. “We still have a long way to go. I'd like to see us reach 35 to 40 percent, but I'm extremely proud of this recognition for what we have accomplished thus far.”

  
Members from the ICS team will officially accept the award at the upcoming  2016 NCWIT Summit on Women and IT Conference , which will be held in Las Vegas from May 16-18, 2016.


  UCI ICS Feature: ICS receives Excellence in Promoting Women in Undergraduate Computing Award from NCWIT
 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 