 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Articles  


     
  

 
 

  June 6,  2007</strong>  Daily Pilot    Fun with a focus on interaction</strong>   By Heidi Schultheis</strong>    The Orange Lounge encourages guests to interact with emerging technologies.   Nestled between a Paul Frank store and Yuen Lui Studio at South Coast Plaza (Macy's Home Store Wing), the front of the Orange Lounge almost looks like a trendy store. But instead of clothes and shoes for sale, this museum space features emerging technologies and ideas.  The flat-screen computers, noise-canceling headphones, computerized turntables and other high-tech pieces are inviting — in a very mod, high-tech sort of way. That's exactly how the Orange Lounge and its current exhibition, PlayTech, are supposed to be.  Aimee Chang, co-curator of the PlayTech exhibition and former Orange County Museum of Art curator of contemporary art, felt it was important that PlayTech encourage a kind of dialogue among viewers as well as between the viewers and art.  "I really wanted to explore how we could use interactive technologies in that space," Chang said.  The works are by four students and one graduate of the UC Irvine Arts Computation Engineering program. All five installation pieces employ digital technologies and require human participation.  Simon Penny, founder and co-director of the program and professor of arts and engineering at UCI, said that the five artists come from China, Korea, Mexico, Canada and the U.S. He described the program as "a radically interdisciplinary program prepping people for new careers in digital cultures."  Addiel de Alba's piece, "Unrealistic Sonic Experiences," creates an original soundscape using special turntables and nontraditional instruments.  "Tenses," by Bruno Nadeau, displays poetry and urban graffiti using fonts and vectoral animation; and Eric Kabisch's "Sonic Panoramas" invites viewers to create music to accompany a landscape image.  Byeong Sam Jeon's piece, "Drop Drop," tracks a remote-control car on a computer-generated canvas, leaving colorful abstract dots along its route and then printing the image. And "GoScape," by Shan Jiang, creates music in response to the positioning of black and white stones on a game board.  The exhibition is especially unique because many of the student projects produced in the UCI program are not conducive to being displayed in a gallery setting, Penny said. But these pieces helped bridge the gap between technology and art.  "Those people who attended have experienced a range of practices that they might not have previously thought of as art," Penny said.  Jeon, a first-year student in the program, has shown "Drop Drop" at a San Diego conference and at a UC Riverside gallery. He said that during a period of only two hours on the opening night of the exhibition, more than 250 drawings created using his installation were printed.  Jeon hopes to do even more with "Drop Drop" after the PlayTech exhibit closes in August.  "It's an ongoing project, and I would like to develop this using a remote-control airplane so that instead of 2-D dots, 3-D dots would appear and a new space will be generated."  The ambition of Jeon and the other artists in the program is important, because they are earning degrees in areas of study that are in early stages of development, Penny said.  "We consider ourselves to be training people for careers that don't yet exist, for new kinds of cultural practices that become possible with emerging technologies," Penny said. "We're concerned with humanizing emerging technologies, but we're also developing those technologies ourselves."   IF YOU GO    WHAT:  PlayTech exhibition at Orange Lounge   WHEN:  Now through Aug. 12: Lounge hours are 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday-Friday, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Sunday.   WHERE:  Orange Lounge at South Coast Plaza, 3333 Bear St., Costa Mesa   COST:  Free   INFO:  (949) 759-1122 or  www.ocma.net/orangelounge   Fun with a focus on interaction 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 