 Webs tab in the Chimera Server<body>

  Home  

 Webs Tab 

 After a user has connected to a Chimera website, they can choose among the hyperwebs stored at the website in order to provide a context for the work they do with their Chimera clients. In Chimera, each hyperweb contains a set of anchors and links and provides access to the anchors and links stored in the hyperweb's parents. As the user moves between hyperwebs, the set of anchors and links available changes, thus establishing a different context for the connected Chimera clients. 

 The Webs tab provides the operations required to select among the hyperwebs of a Chimera website. The names of the hyperwebs are displayed in the Webs list. 
The image below shows a list with no member highlighted. 

   

 Hyperweb Names 

 All hyperwebs stored on the currently connected Chimera website are listed in the Webs list. Any name without a slash indicates a hyperweb at the top of the website's hierarchy. A hyperweb's children are indicated by separating the names with slashes. In the example below,  web1  is at the top of hierarchy along with  web2 , while  web1.1  and  web1.2  are the children of  web1 . 

 Operations 

 The Webs tab provides two operations:  Login  and  Logout . 

 Login 

 To connect to a hyperweb, first click on its name within the list. 
The hyperweb name will appear next to the enabled Login button. Then 
click the Login button to connect with the hyperweb selected.
 

 
Only one hyperweb can be connected at a time. 
To connect to another hyperweb, logout of the current one. 


   

  Note : If the connection attempt with a hyperweb succeeds, the display will shift to the Links tab. See  the documentation  of the Links tab for further details. 

 Logout 

 The Logout operation allows the user to disconnect the connected hyperweb. The  Logout  button will be enabled only when there is a connected hyperweb. 

 In the example below, to disconnect  web1 , click the  Logout  button. 

   

  Home  

</body> 