 Advanced TA Seminar—Spring 2010<body>
  S PRING  Q UARTER  2010
  —  Information and Computer Science    —  UC Irvine    
   Advanced Teaching Assistant Seminar — ICS
  398B  
    C OURSE  S CHEDULE
  AND  I NFORMATION    
    Quick links:   Assignments   E-mail archive   Bloom's Taxonomy   UCI's Teaching…Center   
   Instructor:   David G. Kay ,
  5056 Donald Bren Hall.  Stop by any time, or send electronic mail to "   kay   ".  
    Meeting time and place:  Thursdays
  1:00 to 3:50 p.m. in room ICS 209.  Since this is a two-unit
  course, we may adjust the times slightly or skip the occasional class meeting.  
    Course goals:  In this course we will
  cover teaching computer science at the college level, from the instructor's
  perspective.  This perspective is useful even for students, as consumers
  of instruction, but we presume that participants in this course have some
  (perhaps tentative) plans to teach computer science, whether through University
  Extension, Summer Sessions, or their own academic job.  We will look at
  (and in most cases practice) designing and running one's own course,
  designing assignments and exams, setting grades, preparing teaching portfolios
  (records of your teaching for use in job applications and promotion cases),
  making curricular decisions, and other related issues.  
    Course requirements:  This seminar
  is not designed to impose a large time burden on the participants beyond
  the class meetings themselves.  Grading is satisfactory/unsatisfactory or
  pass/not-pass.  But it is important that you attend the class meetings,
  participate in the discussions, and prepare for the various activities,
  which will include some readings and a variety of informal presentations
  leading towards your own complete design of a course. You should expect that in this course, as a seminar, the majority of the learning will take place in the class meetings. We know that as advanced graduate students, you may have travel obligations; we'll try to work around them, but it will be difficult if you anticipate missing more than two class meetings during the quarter.  
    Very approximate course schedule:   
         Week 1    
      April 1    
      Introductions and overview; planning a course  
       Week 2    
      April 8   
      Clarifying curricular and pedagogical goals  
       Week 3    
      April 15    
      Course design   
       Week 4    
      April 22   
      Assignment design  
       Week 5    
      April 29    
      Grading, plagiarism, managing graders  
       Week 6    
      May 6    
      Exam design  
       Week 7    
      May 13   
      Evaluation alternatives  
       Week 8    
      May 20   
      Setting final grades  
       Week 9    
      May 27    
      Curricular issues, teaching philosophies, teaching jobs  
       Week 10    
      June 3    
      Epilogue  
       Electronic mail:    Be
sure you will receive electronic mail sent to your UCInet ID (your address
@uci.edu)  This is where official course announcements are sent; it's
not necessarily the same as your account @ics.uci.edu.  If you don't
have a UCInet ID, see  http://activate.uci.edu/ .
You can redirect Email from this account to another account   (@ics.uci.edu, for example); see  http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html  .       David G. Kay   ,   kay@uci.edu   
</body> 