 
      Dr. Rina Dechter @ UCI
    <body>

[an error occurred while processing this directive]

   
     
   ICS-275A, Constraint Networks, Fall 2001 
     
   
   announcements  | 
   home work  | 
   chapters &amp; readings  | 
   project  
   

    
    Classoom: PSCB 220     Days: Tuesday &amp; Thursday
    Time: 3:30 - 4:50pm.
    Instructor: Rina Dechter
    Textbooks
       Book chapters of "Constraint Processing"         

  Course Goals 
 
The purpose of this course is to familiarize students with the theory and 
techniques of constraint processing, using the constraint network model. 
This model offers a natural language for encoding world knowledge in areas 
such as scheduling, vision, diagnosis, prediction and design, and it 
facilitates many computational tasks relevant to these domains. The 
course will focus on techniques for constraint processing. It will cover 
search techniques, consistency algorithms and structure based techniques, 
and will focus on properties that facilitate efficient solutions. 
Extensions will be given into applications such as temporal reasoning, 
diagnosis, scheduling, and probabilistic Bayes networks. The constraint 
language Eclipse may be used for modelling and solving constraint problems. 
The topics covered will be taken from the following list. 
 

    Outline 
  The constraint network model, examples.  Graph representations,
      Properties of binary networks:  equivalence,
   the minimal and the projection networks.
     Approximation algorithms: local-consistency vs. global-consistency, 
      arc and path-consistency, directional-consistency, adaptive-consistency, relational-consistency,
      bucket-elimination.    Backtracking strategies: 
      Look-ahead schemes: forward-checking, variable and value orderings, 
      constraint propagation.  The Davis-Putnam algorithms.
Look-back schemes: backjumping, constraint learning.  

     Combining search and inference; the cycle-cutset scheme.

     Stochastic local search algorithms: SLS, GSAT, WSAT

     Constraint-based tractable classes: row-convexity, tightness, looseness,
      implicational and functional constraints, Horn clauses.

     Constraint optimization.

     More topology-based concepts and algorithms: tree-clustering, 
      time-space tradeoff.

     Temporal constraint networks: quantitative, qualitative, and integrated 
      temporal networks.

     Constraint Logic Programming

        Grading Policy 
 Homeworks and projects (60%), Final (40%). 

    Assignments: 
 
There will be weekly homework-assignments,  a project, a  final.
 

    Syllabus: 
  Subject to changes  
 
  
    Week  


  Topic  


  Date    
        Week 1 


 
     Tu, Chapters 1,2: Introduction: examples
and definitions of Constraint networks.   
        Th: Holiday (Yom Kipur).    

 09-25 
        Week 2 

 
     Tu, (longer class) Chapter 2: Propertries of Binary networks. Chapter 3:  Consistency enforcing algorithms, arc, path and i-consistency 
       Th, Chapter 3: continued.   
     

 10-02 
        Week 3 

 
     Tu/Th,Chapter 4: Graph concepts (induced-width), Directional consistency, Adaptive-consistency  
     

 10-09 
        Week 4 

 
     Tu/Th: Chapter 5: Backtracking search, look-ahead methods 
     
 10-16 
        Week 5 

 
     Tu/Th, Chapter 6: Backtracking search, look-back methods 
     

 10-23 
        Week 6 

 
     Tu, Chapter 7: combining seach and inference, the cycle-cutset scheme 
        Th: Chapter 8: Stochastic local search 
     

 10-30 
        Week 7 

 
     Tu/Th, Chapter 9: Advanced consistency methods; Relational consistency and bucket-elimination 
     

 11-06 
        Week 8 

 
     Tu/Th, Chapter 10: Tractable constraint languages 
     

 11-13 
        Week 9 

 
     Tu, Chapter 11: Constraint optimization 
       Th: Thanksgiving 
     

 11-20 
        Week 10 

 
     Additional topics taken from: 
Tree-clustering (Chapter 12), Temporal constraints (Chapter 13), Constraint Programming (Chapter 14) 
         Final  
     

 11-27 
   

    Resources on the Internet 

   Analytica  (an alternative to spreadsheets)
      AI on the web  
      The constraint language Eclipse  
     On-line documentation  
      CSPlib of benchmark CSPs 
     "Bucket Elimination: A unifying framework for structure-driven inference,"  R. Dechter.
     "Bucket Tutorial." 
      
   

  
 School of Information and Computer Science 
 University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3435 
 Dr. Rina Dechter 

 dechter at ics.uci.edu 

  

</body> 