 Econ 11 / ICS 11 Case Studies<body>

              
       
       Scott Jordan       
               Department of Computer Science  
            University of California, Irvine 
           
           
     
      
           
                     
                       Econ 11 / ICS 11 Case Studies   
                            
               
           
       ==== If your group is a Lobbyist ====</strong> 
        Two weeks before the case study week:</strong> 
       
         Start reading the case materials two weeks before the week of your case study. Read enough so that you understand what the "pro" and "con" positions mean. 
       
        Initial Report due Tuesday one week before the case study week:</strong> 
       
         You are working for an organization that is lobbying the United States Senate on the issue; you have been assigned both a position (pro or con) and a lobbying organization. Your job is to convince the Senate to vote on your side. 
         Write a 1-2 page report explaining what the "pro" position means and what the "con" position means. You must explain both regardless of which position you are signed up to argue. Identify a few stakeholders that are on each side of the issue. You should not yet present arguments for either position. Focus only on what the pro side wants and what the con side wants. 
         Turn in the report by  Tuesday 7pm one week before the case study week</strong>.
        Only one member of your group should do the following:  
          If your report is in a format other than Word or PDF, then convert it to PDF. There are several free conversion tools on the Internet, e.g.  Zamzar . Rename the report file to include your group number, e.g. Group3InitialReport. 
           Post the report in the  ICS 11 EEE Dropbox . 
          
        The week  before the case study week:</strong> 
       
         You will make an argument either for or against the case study position, according to  what you position you were assigned . Before you construct your argument, you should understand who you are representing and what type of stakeholders are on the other side of the issue. Although you will only argue your side of the issue, you should understand what arguments the opposing side might make. Decide what your strongest argument is. Bring in course concepts from both economics and networking to support your position; this is critical and example concepts will be listed on each case study page. Make sure you get your facts correct. More detailed suggestions for how to do this are on  these lecture slides . 
         Prepare both a presentation and a report. 
         Presentation Preparation: The presentation should be in either Powerpoint or PDF format. You will have 8 minutes to present, so a rough guideline is that you should have 6-12 slides. You will not have nearly enough time to present everything you have learned. Therefore, you should decide what you think is the most important information for your classmates. Warning: the 8 minutes will probably elapse more quickly than you think, and you should definitely practice your timing as a group before class. 
         Debate Preparation: Prepare a list of at least 4 questions that you may ask an opposing lobbyist team. Each question should take no longer than 30 seconds to ask. 
         Report Preparation: The report should contain a summary of the verbal argument you make during your presentation. The report should be 6-8 pages long. Any material taken directly from a source must be placed in quotes and cited with the corresponding source designation, e.g. Jordan [1] argues "blah blah blah". YOU MUST INCLUDE IN YOUR WRITTEN REPORT A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF YOUR INFORMATION SOURCES.  Please include the following information for each information source: 
          Source designation, e.g. [1] or [Jordan2007]. 
           Author of the document. 
           Title of the document (e.g. article title or web page title). 
           Venue where the document was published (e.g. journal, conference, magazine, publisher, name of website). 
           Where to find the document within the venue (e.g. volume number and page number, or path within webpage sitemap), if available. 
           Date written; for webpages without a date written include the date accessed. 
           URL, if available. This should be the direct URL provided by the venue, not the URL used through a search engine or abstracting service. 
          
        Tuesday of the case study week:</strong>       
         Before the Tuesday class</strong>, upload your  presentation</strong>.
          Only one member of your group should do the following:
  If your presentation is in a format other than Powerpoint or PDF, then convert it to PDF. There are several free conversion tools on the Internet, e.g.  Zamzar . Rename the presentation file to include your group number, e.g. Group3LobbyistSlides. 
             Post the report in the  ICS 11 EEE Dropbox . 
            
         During the first 50 minutes of class, your group will present your argument to the class. You can share the 8 minutes among your team however you desire. You should practice the presentation beforehand to get the timing right. You will use the computer in the classroom, and download your slides from the ICS 11 EEE Dropbox (so make sure you've competed step 1 above before class). 
         During the last 30 minutes of class, your group will debate the topic with other lobbyist groups. Your group will be called on to ask several questions, and to answer several questions. Each question should take no longer than 30 seconds to ask. Each answer should take no longer than 60 seconds. You should rotate among members of your group in asking and answering questions. 
          Turn in the report by Tuesday 7pm</strong>.
          Only one member of your group should do the following:
            If your report is in a format other than Word or PDF, then convert it to PDF. There are several free conversion tools on the Internet, e.g.   Zamzar . Rename the report file to include your group number, e.g. Group3LobbyistReport. 
             One person in your group must enroll in the Econ 11 / ICS 11 class in turnitin.com. The website offers a  quick start guide  as well as  more detailed instructions . You will need to  create an account  and  enroll in the class turnitin account . The class id is 14392800 and the enrollment password is "policy". 
              Post the report  to turnitin.com. When uploading your report, for the title use the file name, e.g. Group3LobbyistReport. After you have submitted the report, wait a minute or two for turnitin to produce a Similarity Report. Then  view the Similarity Report .. If the Similarity Report shows any significant problems (e.g. if the icon for the Similarity Reportis yellow or red), then consider revising your report and repeating this step. 
             Post the report in the  ICS 11 EEE Dropbox  so that we can grade it. 
            
          
        Grading</strong>: 
      Presentation:
          Networking arguments: 15 points 
           Economics arguments: 15 points  
           Public policy arguments: 15 points 
           Presentation skills (slide order, slide content, verbal comments): 20 points 
           Timing (how close to the time limit was your presentation?): 5 points 
          
       Report:
          Networking arguments: 15 points 
           Economics arguments: 15 points 
          
      
      
        Scott Jordan   
     last modified January 10, 2017 
      UCI  
      •  CS  •  Networked Systems   
    </body> 