 Reyhaneh Jabbarvand, Author at Software Engineering and Analysis Lab (SEAL) 
 
	
	 
			  Software Engineering and Analysis Lab (SEAL)  

			 
				 Search 
			 

			
				 Skip to content 
				    About SEAL  
  Members  
  Publications  
  Research Projects  
  Tools  
  Blog  
  			 

		 
			 
				
				 
					 Search for: 
					 
							 
		 
	 

	 

			
			 
					All posts by Reyhaneh Jabbarvand				 
							 
			  News  
		 
		  Nariman Mirzaei defended his PhD thesis  
		 
			  June 4, 2016      Reyhaneh Jabbarvand   		 
	 
		  Nariman Mirzaei  defended his PhD thesis at George Mason University. 
  Thesis title</strong>: Automated Input Generation Techniques for Testing Android Applications 
  Abstract</strong>: 
 The rising popularity of Android and the GUI-driven nature of its apps have motivated the need for applicable automated testing techniques. This dissertation describes two automatic techniques for generating inputs for testing Android applications, SIG-Droid and TrimDroid. Both presented techniques employ a model-based approach to capture the event-driven nature of Android applications into two inferred models : Interface Model and Activity Transition Model. The Interface Model is used to find values that an app can receive through its interfaces. The Activity Transition Model is used to generate sequences of events that resemble user interactions with the app. SIG-Droid uses symbolic execution for obtaining test inputs that ensure covering each reachable branch in the program, while TrimDroid focuses on reducing the combinatorics (i.e. dealing with combinatorial explosion of test cases) in combinatorial testing of Android apps. TrimDroid relies on program analysis to extract formal specifications that express the dependencies between the GUI elements. The dependencies among the GUI elements comprising the app are used to reduce the number of combinations with the help of a solver. All conducted experiments corroborate the effectiveness and efficiency of SIG-Droid and TrimDroid. 
	 
	
	 
			  News  
		 
		  Reyhaneh Jabbarvand advanced to candidacy  
		 
			  May 27, 2016      Reyhaneh Jabbarvand   		 
	 
		  Reyhaneh Jabbarvand  passes her candidacy exam by presenting her recently accepted paper in ISSTA’16. 
  Title</strong>: Energy-aware test-suite minimization for Android apps 
  Abstract</strong>: The rising popularity of mobile apps deployed on battery-constrained devices has motivated the need for applicable energy-aware testing techniques. However, the state-of-the-art test-suite management techniques are mainly focused on functional properties, e.g., fault detection, and do not explicitly consider the energy behavior of apps. This paper presents an energy-aware test-suite minimization approach to determine a set of tests appropriate for profiling the energy behavior of Android apps. It relies on our novel coverage criterion, eCoverage, that indicates the degree to which energy greedy parts of a program are tested. Our experiments over test suites provided for real-world apps have corroborated its ability to reduce the size of test suite by 84% (on average, 80%), while covering the same energy hotspots initially covered by the original test suite and maintaining its ability to find potential energy bugs. 
  Committee members</strong>: Sam Malek (chair), James Jones, Cristina Lopes, André van der Hoek, Guoqing (Harry) Xu 
	 
	
	 
			  News  
		 
		  Energy-Aware Test-Suite Minimization for Android Apps — ISSTA 2016  
		 
			  April 18, 2016      Reyhaneh Jabbarvand   		 
	 
		 The rising popularity of mobile apps deployed on battery-constrained devices has motivated the need for effective energy-aware testing techniques. Energy testing is generally more labor intensive and expensive than functional testing, as tests need to be executed in the deployment environment, specialized equipment needs to be used to collect energy measurements, etc. Currently, there is a dearth of automatic mobile testing techniques that consider energy as a program property of interest. This paper presents an energy-aware test-suite minimization approach to significantly reduce the number of tests needed to eeffectively test the energy properties of an Android app. It relies on an energy-aware coverage criterion that indicates the degree to which energy-greedy parts of a program are tested. We describe and evaluate two complementary algorithms for test-suite reduction. Experiments over test suites provided for real-world apps have corroborated our ability to reduce the test suite size by 84% on average, while maintaining the effectiveness of test suite in revealing the great majority of energy bugs. 
 Read more about this project  here . 
	 
	
	 
	 
			 Recent News 		  
				 HaCkEd By RxR HaCkEr 
							 June 13, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Nariman Mirzaei defended his PhD thesis 
							 June 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Reyhaneh Jabbarvand advanced to candidacy 
							 May 27, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Practical, Formal Synthesis and Automatic Enforcement of Security Policies for Android — DSN 2016 
							 May 6, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Eric Yuan defended his PhD thesis 
							 May 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Ehsan Kouroshfar defended his PhD thesis 
							 May 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Energy-Aware Test-Suite Minimization for Android Apps — ISSTA 2016 
							 April 18, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Reducing Combinatorics in GUI Testing of Android Applications — ICSE 2016 
							 December 20, 2015 
						 
					 
				 Move to UC Irvine 
							 July 1, 2015 
						 
					 
				 Detection of Design Flaws in the Android Permission Protocol through Bounded Verification — FM 2015 
							 June 24, 2015 
						 
				  
 
		 University of California, Irvine 
	
		 
		   
		
				 
					 Search for: 
					 
				 
	 

		 

		 
								 Proudly powered by WordPress 
			 
		 

	</body> 