 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  October 20,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         ICS welcomes four new faculty members for fall 2016 quarter
</strong>
          
                    
The UC Irvine Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences hired four new faculty members who started in the fall 2016 quarter. All of them are recognized leaders in their communities and will help ICS maintain its strength in a broad array of information and computer science domains. Please help us welcome these talented researchers: 
 
  
 Rebecca Black</strong>   Associate Professor of Informatics  
Ph.D., University of Wisconsin, Madison    Rebecca Black’s  research centers on the literacy and socialization practices of young people from diverse cultural and linguistic backgrounds who are writing and participating in online popular culture-inspired environments. This work includes an explicit focus on the 21st century skills and forms of literacy and learning that youth are engaging with in online spaces. Her 2008 book, Adolescents and Online Fan Fiction, explored how English language-learning youth represent their cultural and linguistic identities through fan fiction texts. Black joins ICS after serving on the faculty at UCI’s School of Education.   
 
  
 Michele Guindani</strong>   Associate Professor of Statistics  
Ph.D., Università Bocconi (Milan, Italy)    Michele Guindani’s  research interests include the use of a Bayesian (parametric and nonparametric) modeling framework for the analysis of problems in biostatistics, genetics, and spatial statistics, and the solution of inverse problems (with particular regard to pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics modeling). He is additionally interested in developing statistical models for data integration as well as Bayesian decision-theoretical approaches to address multiple comparison problems in hypothesis testing. Guindani joins UCI after serving as a faculty member at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center.   

  
 Sameer Singh</strong>   Assistant Professor of Computer Science  
Ph.D., University of Massachusetts, Amherst    Sameer Singh’s  current research is on large- scale and interactive machine learning applied to information extraction and natural language processing. As a Ph.D. candidate, he had the opportunity to intern at Microsoft Research, Google Research and Yahoo! Labs. Singh also was selected as a DARPA Riser, won the grand prize in the Yelp Dataset Challenge, has been awarded a Yahoo! Key Scientific Challenges Award and was a finalist for the Facebook Ph.D.  Fellowship. Singh joins the ICS faculty after serving as a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Washington.   

  
 Aaron Trammell</strong>   Assistant Professor of Informatics  
Ph.D., Rutgers University    Aaron Trammell  was a Provost’s Postdoctoral Scholar for Faculty Diversity in Informatics and Digital Knowledge at the Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism at the University of Southern California before coming to ICS. His research is focused on revealing historical connections between games, play and the U.S. military-industrial complex. Trammell is also interested in how military ideologies become integrated into game design and how these perspectives are negotiated within the imaginations of players.


   ICS welcomes four new faculty members for fall 2016 quarter
    
                &lt; Previous 
                 36 ICS students to attend 2016 Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing Conference

              
                Next &gt; 
                 UCI team awarded $2.9 million by NSF for graduate training in data science, STEM


             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 