 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
 
   Diameter and treewidth in minor-closed graph families . 
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:math.CO/9907126 .  Algorithmica  27: 275–291, 2000
(special issue on treewidth, graph minors, and algorithms).
 
This paper introduces the  diameter-treewidth
property  (later known as  bounded local treewidth ): a
functional relationship between the diameter of its graph and its treewidth.
Previously known results imply that planar graphs have
bounded local treewidth; we characterize the
other minor-closed families with this property. Specifically,
minor-closed family F has bounded local treewidth if and only if there
exists an  apex graph  G that is not in F; an apex graph is a graph
that can be made planar by removing a single vertex.
The minor-free families that exclude an apex graph (and therefore have
bounded local treewidth) include the bounded-genus
graphs (for which, as with planar graphs, we show a linear bound for the
treewidth as a function of the diameter) and K 3,a -free graphs.  As
a consequence, subgraph isomorphism for subgraphs of bounded size and
approximations to several NP-hard optimization problems can be computed
efficiently on these graphs, extending previous results for planar
graphs.
  Some of these results
were announced in the conference version of
" subgraph isomorphism for planar graphs and related
problems " but not included in the journal version. Since its
publication, there have been many more works on local treewidth. The class of
problems that could be solved quickly on graphs of bounded local
treewidth was extended and classified by Frick and Grohe, " Deciding first-order
properties of locally tree-decomposable structures ",  J. ACM 
48: 1184–1206, 2001;
the proof that bounded local treewidth is equivalent to having an
excluded apex minor was simplified, and the dependence of the treewidth
on diameter
improved, by a subsequent paper of Demaine and Hajiaghayi, " Diameter and
treewidth in minor-closed graph families, revisited ",  Algorithmica 
40: 211–215, 2004. The concept of local treewidth is the basis for the
theory of  bidimensionality , a general framework for
fixed-parameter-tractable algorithms and approximation algorithms in
minor-closed graph families; for a survey, see Demaine and Hajiaghayi,
" The
bidimensionality theory and its algorithmic applications ",  The
Computer J.  51: 292–302, 2008.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
     
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 