 Making Distance Matter Less 
 
	 Skip to content 
			 
			  
		 
																	    
								 Making Distance Matter Less 
					 

		
			    Gary M. Olson  
  Projects 
   Virtual Teams  
	  Collaboration Success Wizard  
	  DocuViz  
	  Novox  
	  The Science of Collaboratories  
	  Collective Intelligence  
  
  Publications 
   Authored Books  
	  Edited Books  
	  Peer Reviewed Journal Articles  
	  Peer Reviewed Book Chapters  
	  Peer Reviewed Conference Proceedings — Papers  
	  Peer Reviewed Conference Proceedings – Extended Abstracts  
	  Invited Articles  
	  Edited Conference Proceedings  
	  Other Publications  
	  Book Reviews  
  
  Gary’s Bookshelf 
   History and Biography  
	  The Arts  
	  Food and Drink  
	  Books about Books  
	  HCI and CSCW  
	  Sports  
  
  Vita  
  		 

	 
		 Gary M. Olson 			 
		  Gary M. Olson retired in December 2016. He previously was the Donald Bren Professor of  Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine , and before that, the Paul M. Fitts Professor of Human-Computer Interaction at the  University of Michigan . He is currently Emeritus Professor at the  both UCI and the University of Michigan, and is still active in research. 
 His research spans the fields of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) and Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW), with particular interests in collaborative technologies and their role in supporting long-distance work. A recent review of this research was published as  Working Together Apart  (Morgan &amp; Claypool, 2014). He is also interested in cognition, problem-solving, reasoning, and information visualization. 
 Olson is a Fellow of the  Association of Computing Machinery , the  Association for Psychological Science , and the  American Psychological Association . In 2003, he was elected to the  CHI Academy , and in 2006 he received the  CHI Lifetime Achievement Award  along with his wife,  Dr. Judith S. Olson . In 2016 he received the  CHI Lifetime Service Award.  
			 

			 


	 

	 
			 Blog at WordPress.com. 
			
					 
	 


 
	 

	 
		
			 Post to 
			 
				  Cancel  
				 

			

		  
	 
 
			   
		    
</body> 