 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  November 17,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         ICS-Engineering Leadership Council’s Diversity Committee Receives NAMEPA Wings to Succeed Award

</strong>
              
    
                    
The National Association of Multicultural Engineering Program Advocates ( NAMEPA ) has selected the UC Irvine Engineering-ICS Leadership Council’s Diversity Committee for the 2016 NAMEPA Wings to Succeed Award in recognition of the committee’s efforts to encourage the achievement and persistence of underrepresented minority students in STEM.
 
  
The 25-member committee is dedicated to promoting and enhancing diversity across both information and computer science and engineering schools and to mentoring women and underserved minorities. The group meets quarterly and focuses on outreach, recruitment and retention. NAMEPA cited the committee’s instrumental role in establishing both the Undergraduate Mentorship Program in 2013 and the Office of Access and Inclusion in 2014.
 
  
Committee co-chair Leila Rohani says the group’s primary focus is to find ways to help recruit and retain underrepresented students, improve their graduation rate and help them succeed in their careers.  “The mentorship program and Office of Access and Inclusion allow us to meet these objectives, and have a direct impact on students' lives with tangible and measurable results,” says Rohani, senior vice president and regional manager of Pacific Mercantile Bank.
 
  
The Office of Access and Inclusion jointly serves undergraduate students from populations historically underrepresented in engineering and computing. The office employs a three-pronged approach: increasing access, creating an inclusive environment, and fostering academic and professional excellence. The office currently provides academic support to more than 3,100 undergraduate students.
 
  
The Undergraduate Mentoring Program, which fosters relationships between UCI alumni, community members, industry professionals and undergraduate students from underrepresented groups, has seen an increase in participation of 125 percent since 2013. This past year, 88 mentors worked with 120 mentees.
 
  
“The program connects underrepresented students with experienced business professionals as their mentors,” says Rohani. “It has been a successful and rewarding experience not only for the students but also for the mentors. In many cases these connections have evolved into friendships that could last a lifetime.”
 
  
The Wings to Succeed awards honor individuals or teams who have catalyzed change to help students from underrepresented groups overcome historic barriers or who go above and beyond standard expectations and are instrumental in the success of students from diverse backgrounds in engineering.
 
  
NAMEPA is a national network of educators and representatives from industry, government and nonprofit organizations who are committed to improving the recruitment and retention of underrepresented minority students earning degrees in engineering.
 
  
The Diversity Committee was recognized at the 37th Annual NAMEPA National Conference at Purdue University in early October.
 
  
- Lori Brandt, Samueli School of Engineering



   ICS-Engineering Leadership Council’s Diversity Committee Receives NAMEPA Wings to Succeed Award

    
                &lt; Previous 
                 'The League' of Her Own
              
                Next &gt; 
                 3 ICS researchers named AAAS fellows


             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 