 Emily Navarro<body>   Course Title     Informatics 122    Software Design II    Winter 2015          Professor  
Emily Navarro 
http://www.ics.uci.edu/~emilyo 
emilyo@uci.edu     Office Hours  
Tuesdays 3:50-4:50pm    DBH 5221     Reader  
Suyash Misra    suyashm@uci.edu    Office Hours: Wednesdays 12-1pm, ICS 364 (ask lab attendant to point you to Suyash)          Logistics  
Location: DBH 1300 
Day and time: Tuesday and Thursday, 5:00-6:20pm     Catalogue Description  
122 Software Design II (4). Introduction to implementation design: designing the internals of a software application. Topics include design aesthetics, design implementation, design recovery, design patterns, and component reuse. Includes practice in designing and case studies of existing designs. Prerequisite: Informatics 121.     Book  
Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software (Addison-Wesley Professional Computing Series, Hardcover), Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson, John Vlissides, 1995     Grades  
All students enrolled in the course will earn a letter grade based upon: (a) class attendance and participation, (b) assignments, (c) the final class project, and (d) team evaluations.  
Grade distribution will be as follows (as suitably adjusted with team evaluations):       Design aesthetics: 15%  
      Design implementation: 15%  
      Design patterns &amp; refactoring: 15%  
      Design recovery: 15%  
      Component review: 15%  
      Final project: 25%  
      Completing the course evaluation on EEE: 0.5% extra credit  
         Course Mailing List  
To send mail:   37030-W15@classes.uci.edu   
To view the archive:   https://eee.uci.edu/classmail/w15/37030/       Students with Disabilities  
Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation based on the impact of a disability should contact me privately to discuss his or her specific needs. Please also contact the Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to better ensure that such accommodations are implemented in a timely fashion.     Academic Dishonesty     Academic Dishonesty will not be tolerated in any shape or form. You will be held responsible for any and all actions whether they were performed indirectly (i.e. you left your computer unmonitored, someone stole your password, you left a printed version of your work in the lab). Remember, the burden of proof is on you. The staff must solely determine that academic dishonesty has occurred, and hope that those responsible will own up to their actions. In cases where neither student admits their participation, both will receive the same sanctions on a course-level (Note: campus-wide sanctions are determined by the Associate Dean of your department). Cheating will be detected by TurnItIn.com. Please note that instances of academic dishonesty will be reflected in the final grade because dishonesty devalues the learning experience for the whole class.          Late Work  
Late work will not be accepted, except in truly extenuating circumstances for which the student can produce documentation validating their circumstance (e.g., a doctor's note, a police report, etc.)     Copyright  
The documents below are included to ensure timely dissemination of scholarly and technical work on a non-commercial basis and are for the sole use of students enrolled in Informatics 122. Copyright and all rights therein are maintained by the authors or by other copyright holders, notwithstanding that they have offered their works here electronically. It is understood that all persons copying this information will adhere to the terms and constraints invoked by each author's copyright. These works may not be resposted without the explicit permission of the copyright holder.     Schedule (subject to change without notice)       
           Week   
       
       
           Date   
       
       
           Topic   
       
       
           Slides   
       
       
           Assignments   
       
       
          1  
       
       
          January 6  
       
       
           Review and Preview   
       
       
           Lecture 1   
       
       
             
       
       
             
       
       
          January 8  
       
       
          Design Aesthetics  
          UML Review  
       
       
           Lecture 2   
       
       
           Assignment 1, part 1    out (individual, moderate)  
       
       
          2  
       
       
          January 13  
       
       
          Design Aesthetics  
          Changeability  
       
       
           Lecture 3   
       
       
          Assignment 1, part 1 due  
           Assignment 1, part 2    out (individual, moderate)  
       
       
             
       
       
          January 15  
       
       
          Design Aesthetics (Student Presentations)  
       
       
             
       
       
             
             
       
       
          3  
       
       
          January 20  
       
       
          Design Aesthetics  
          (Student Presentations)  
             
       
       
             
       
       
             
       
       
             
       
       
          January 22  
       
       
          Design Aesthetics  
          Reflection  
       
       
             
       
       
          Assignment 1, part 2 due  
           Assignment 1, part 3    out (individual, moderate)  
             
       
       
          4  
       
       
          January 27  
       
       
          Design Patterns  
       
       
           Lecture 4   
           sample code   
       
       
          Assignment 1, part 3 due  
           Assignment 2    out (individual, heavy)  
       
       
             
       
       
          January 29  
       
       
          Design Patterns  
       
       
           Lecture 5   
           sample code   
       
       
             
       
       
          5  
       
       
          February 3  
       
       
          Design Patterns  
       
       
           Lecture 6   
           sample code   
       
       
          Assignment 2 due  
           Assignment 3, part 1    out (individual, moderate)  
       
       
             
       
       
          February 5  
       
       
          Refactoring  
       
       
           Lecture 7   
       
       
           Assignment 3, part 2    out (individual, moderate)  
       
       
          6  
       
       
          February 10  
       
       
          Design Recovery  
       
       
           Lecture 8   
       
       
          Assignment 3 (parts 1 and 2) due  
           Assignment 4    out (team, heavy)  
       
       
             
       
       
          February 12  
       
       
          Design Recovery  
       
       
             
       
       
             
       
       
          7  
       
       
          February 17  
       
       
          Design Recovery Presentations  
       
       
             
       
       
          Assignment 4 due  
       
       
             
       
       
          February 19  
       
       
          Reuse  
       
       
           Lecture 9   
       
       
           Assignment 5    out (individual, heavy)  
       
       
          8  
       
       
          February 24  
       
       
          Design in the Large  
       
       
           Lecture 10   
       
       
             
       
       
             
       
       
          February 26  
       
       
          Reuse Presentations  
       
       
           Lecture 11   
       
       
          Assignment 5 due  
           Final Design Project    out (team, heavy)  
       
       
          9  
       
       
          March 3  
       
       
          Final Design Project  
       
       
          "Plan of attack" presentations (15 min. per team)  
       
       
             
       
       
             
       
       
          March 5  
       
       
          Final Design Project  
       
       
          Preliminary design presentations (20 min. per team)  
       
       
          Preliminary design documents due  
       
       
          10  
       
       
          March 10  
       
       
          Final Design Project  
       
       
          Detailed design presentations (20 min. per team)  
       
       
          Detailed design documents due  
       
       
             
       
       
          March 12  
       
       
          Final Design Project  
          Course Wrap-Up  
       
       
          First demos (20 min. per team)  
           Lecture 12   
       
       
          Updated design documents due  
       
       
          Finals week  
       
       
          March 19, 4:00 - 6:00pm  
       
       
          Final Design Project  
       
       
          Final design and retrospective on design presentation (15 min. per team)  
          Final demo (15 min. per team)  
       
       
          Final Design Project due:  
          Updated design documents  
          Code (via a CM repository)  
          Final design project team evaluation  
       
                          
             
       
       
             
       
       </body> 