 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  April 25,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         CS undergrad's business makes Inc.’s 2016 list of Coolest College Startups
</strong>
              Junior Nick Nguyen is recognized for his startup CubeForme, a 3-D printing subscription-box service.    
                  

   
 CubeForme , a 3-D printing subscription box service co-founded by computer science undergraduate Nick Nguyen, has been named one of  Inc.’s   Coolest College Startups of 2016 .

  
The subscription-box service delivers curated 3-D printed products from independent designers to subscribers every month, including gadgets, games and art pieces. Individuals can also opt to purchase the products online without a subscription.

  
The six-employee student startup aims to inspire an appreciation of 3-D printing and give 3-D designers the recognition that they deserve. According to the  Inc.   profile , CubeForme was bootstrapped from $2,000 put up by Nguyen and his co-founder Kyle Pham, a student at the University of Southern California. Subscriptions launched in November 2015 while direct online sales came two months later, allowing artists to make a 10 percent commission on each product.

  
“To us, 3D printing has redefined possibility,” the CubeForme team says on their website. “The technology is a revolutionary outlet for innovation, allowing unrestrained creativity and unprecedented precision. The depth of ingenuity in every layer of the process truly fascinates us. There is truly a 3D printed invention for anyone and everyone to enjoy and benefit from.”

  
According to  Inc. , the startup recently “established partnerships with My Mini Factory, a 3-D printable object download platform; MatterHackers, a 3-D printer distributor and software developer; and a number of product and design sites such as Brit &amp; Co. and Monthlyboxhub.” CubeForme also participated in last year’s Los Angeles Gadget Expo.

  
 Inc.’s  Coolest College Startups list highlights America’s top student-run businesses, voted in by a tournament-style competition. Inc.'s 16 Coolest College Startups were selected from a list of more than 100 companies from universities across North America, most nominated by schools and collegiate entrepreneurs organization. Criteria included originality of idea, pitch and growth potential, according to the  magazine .




                      CS undergrad's business makes Inc.’s 2016 list of Coolest College Startups
    
                &lt; Previous 
                 UCI ranked one of the top game design schools by ACR
              
                Next &gt; 
                 Dourish discusses Chinese hackerspaces on Danish radio
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 