 Bandwagons Considered Harmful<body>
  
 
 This paper is also available in  PostScript 
or  PDF (Acrobat) 
format.  
 
      
  
 Key Words:    Curricular trends,
first-year courses, curriculum design, academic decision-making    
 
 Abstract  
 
 The field of computer science changes rapidly,
and this change occurs as well in the introductory curriculum.  Formerly
advanced topics filter down to the first year, and even to secondary school;
some topics disappear completely.  These changes are good--they indicate
a dynamic discipline and a still-emerging picture of the field's fundamental
principles.  But we must not let our revolutionary zeal blind us to the
pedagogical need and conceptual value of time-tested material.  Many topics
and approaches that are well understood and now unfashionable should retain
their place in the introductory curriculum, where they serve as intellectual
ballast, foundation, and motivation for the more current and trendier content.
 We argue here for balance:  that radical change be tempered by an appreciation
for the place of long-standing approaches and underlying fundamentals. 
Those advocating curricular change must articulate their educational goals
fully and consider explicitly what effect on those goals they expect the
change to have; they must not throw the baby out with the bathwater.    
   
 The Introductory Computer Science Curriculum Changes  
 
 The rapid development of computer science is by
now a cliché.  This rapidity occurs even in the introductory material;
in what other discipline does the entire approach and content of the first
course change so frequently?  We decide that some topics are less important
or unimportant, and new tools and technologies let us cover other topics
in less time than in the past.  This leaves room for more advanced material
to filter down to introductory courses, though we might equally say that
the advanced material often pushes its way earlier in the curriculum, sometimes
faster than we can make room for it.  The law of "Conservation of Curriculum"
still applies:  For any new material we add to the introductory curriculum,
some old material--that once we thought important enough to cover--must
give way.  
 
 Former fundamentals do fade:  Few of us teach
machine-level programming in introductory courses.  Few spend weeks drilling
on number-base conversions or teach circuit theory to novices.  Yet once
these topics were staples of introductory courses, regarded as fundamental
prerequisites to the high-level language programming and algorithm analysis
that most of us teach in the first course today.  
 
 We also decide to start our coverage at higher
abstraction levels.  We decide that some heretofore fundamental concepts
have become underlying details.  Historical perspective and maturing of
the discipline contribute to these changes, refining our view of what is
fundamental.  We decide that binary search trees are fundamentally illustrative
of certain concepts of algorithms and data organization, so they have made
their way into the standard first-year curriculum, but B-trees and 2-3 trees
typically remain in the realm of more advanced courses.    
 
 Better (or more accessible) textbooks allow us
to cover more advanced material earlier:  Many alternatives now exist to
Knuth  Endnotes  
for data structures, Jensen &amp; Wirth  Endnotes  
for Pascal, and even Abelson &amp; Sussman  Endnotes  
for programming, abstraction, and Scheme.  These early texts are justifiably
regarded as classics, but a proliferation of other books eases the migration
of their topics ever earlier in the curriculum.  Software tools as well
promote this migration:  "Student-oriented" compilers like WATFOR
and PL/C, syntax-directed editors like parenthesis-matchers for Lisp, and
program synthesizers like the CMU Pascal Genie all handle details and rough
edges, allowing the instructor to devote more time to new substance and
approaches.  
 
 As we add new material to our introductory courses,
though, how carefully do we consider what concepts and skills we now must
de-emphasize or omit?  Changes in introductory curricula are made too often
as a hasty attempt to jump on a current bandwagon, without thoughtful consideration
of pedagogical goals and the value of the topics being supplanted.  The
risk of short-changing meaningful deliberations may be greatest at research
universities, where faculty often receive little reward or respect for time
and attention paid to issues of introductory education.    
 
 Introductory Curricula Today Are Diverse  
 
 Great diversity exists in today's introductory
courses, on many different axes:  emphasis on mathematical formality vs.
production of actual programs, experience-oriented "closed" labs
vs. design-oriented "open" labs, breadth of computer science coverage
vs. depth of analysis (or of programming experience), analysis of existing
"case studies" vs. synthesis of new programs, direct applicability
in the real world vs. conceptual simplicity in the choice of programming
language.  This is all to the good; certainly we don't know any single
best way to teach introductory computer science, and the exploration of
new approaches is much to be encouraged.  
 
 But we must take great care that our enthusiasm
for novel approaches not lead us to omit something vital.  Going too far
towards the end of any of these scales implies the omission of other topics
and experiences, which may turn out to be equally fundamental.    
 
 Curricular Debate Often Generates More Heat Than Light  
 
 An obstacle to reasoned curriculum development
is the polarization that often arises between curricular innovators and
traditionalists.  
 
 Innovators often meet resistance to change.  Faced
with this resistance, one tends at times to overstate one's case, exaggerating
the harm of the status quo and demanding its complete reversal.  The introduction
of structured programming grew from a letter of Dijkstra's  Endnotes  
into a raging controversy, with one camp regarding any use of a goto as
a mortal sin and the other resentful of any attempt to rein in their creative
freedom as programmers.  Even Knuth's moderating voice six years later  Endnotes  
did not mark the end of the controversy.  We computer scientists are not
immune to the human foible of regarding our own approach as the one best
way and labeling as an idiot anyone who does not see things as we do.  
 
 A position stated in stark, extreme, revolutionary
terms is more likely to generate attention and interest--necessary prerequisites
to approval and funding--than one articulated with more balance or one that
embodies an evolutionary approach.  Sex, after all, sells, especially in
a discipline where true order-of-magnitude changes do occur with frequent
regularity.  An example of this tendency towards exaggeration is Dijkstra's
assertion that those who learn Basic as a first programming language are
irreparably harmed as programmers.  In fact, knowledge is dangerous only
when it is incomplete or incorrectly applied.  Many instructors assert that
they would rather have a complete novice than one who has programmed in
Basic, but if Basic programmers were weaned onto a more powerful and conceptually
stronger language after writing their first 25-line program, they would
be ahead of complete novices in understanding interactivity, imperative
programming and control flow, variables, the need for precise syntax, and
so on.  We do students a disservice by trying to protect them from "dangerous"
knowledge, especially when they have already been exposed to it independently
of us.  
 
 The pendulum of fashion swings as wildly in computer
science education as elsewhere.  Pattis  Endnotes  ,
for example, describes how the "procedures early" approach gathered
such momentum that many courses and texts eventually came to cover procedures
much earlier than a pedagogical justification for them existed.  He also
describes the pendulum's reversal, which should provide some hope that
equilibrium can eventually be attained, although the "procedures early"
slogan still persists in textbooks' titles, prefaces, and advertising.
 As scientists and educators we owe it to our students to exert whatever
moderation we can over our tendency to jump with both feet onto the newest,
most attractive bandwagon.  
 
 As academic computer science matures, we must
develop a respect for our pedagogical heritage and history, and not discard
it willy-nilly as each attractive new concept comes along.  Fewer and fewer
academics' careers span the entire development of the field, so few
of us have a complete personal perspective of how our discipline emerged.
 We have passed the point where we can build a new curriculum from the ground
up every time a new approach warrants consideration.    
 
 Innovations Have the Potential to Do More Harm Than Good  
 
 If we look at examples of four currently popular
curricular trends, we see strong arguments in favor of each (which their
proponents justifiably emphasize).  But each also raises serious questions,
which the trends' proponents seldom address.  We argue here not against
innovation (nor against  these  innovations), but in favor of a more
careful, open, balanced debate, with less blatant advocacy and more reasoned
discussion of the tradeoffs involved.  Proponents of change must not fear
honest dialogue.  We are educators, and we must educate our colleagues rather
than simply demanding that they share our vision on faith.    
 
 Example--De-Emphasis of Programming  
 
 Introductory courses ten years ago focused largely
on the construction of programs--sometimes just on coding, sometimes on
larger design and abstraction issues, but always with a view towards writing
complete programs to accomplish some task.  Today the pendulum is swinging
towards analysis and away from design.  Current trends towards formality,
case-study analysis, and structured, scheduled, analysis-oriented laboratory
work reduce the amount of from-the-ground-up design an introductory student
will carry out.  Nobody should dispute the need for analytical skills and
formal reasoning, and we should welcome a retreat from purely synthesis-oriented
courses.  Nevertheless, we must not deprive the students of some program
design experience in the introductory courses, for many reasons.  
 
 First, design is an important part of the discipline;
nobody would dispute that learning how to build software is a major part
of an education in computer science.  Although synthesis may have overshadowed
analysis in the past, we must be careful not merely to reverse the imbalance.  
 
 Second, many of our introductory students come
to us with many years' experience programming.  We may find this experience
to be haphazard and undisciplined, but that experience is probably what
excited them about computer science and brought them to us in the first
place.  By ignoring the programming process, we risk alienating these highly
motivated students, or giving them the impression that we have nothing to
add to their existing programming knowledge (an attitude all too many of
them come to us with already).  
 
 Third, the experience of trying to design something
large without adequate complexity management tools is indispensable motivation
for learning those tools.  If computer science is largely about complexity
management, people should learn by their own experience why those tools
(be they good identifier names, source code indentation, modularity, data
or procedural abstraction, or object-oriented programming) are essential.
 Programs of 40 lines (or even 240) fail to make the need for these techniques
clear.  
 
 Fourth, we simply do not know how much coding
experience is necessary as a background to understanding broader issues.
 Nearly every reader of this paper, we expect, learned coding before algorithm
design or analysis, wrote imperative programs before functional ones and
iterative programs before recursive ones, programmed in an Algol-like language
(or Basic or assembler) before programming in functional or parallel or
object-oriented languages.  How much of that early experience provided us
with motivation, fundamental grounding, and necessary ways of thinking that
helped us learn and appreciate the later tools?  Can we be certain that
abandoning this history will allow us to teach as effectively?  In particular,
can students appreciate abstraction if they don't know what they're
abstracting from?  As C.A.R. Hoare put it, "You can't teach beginning
programmers top-down design because they don't know which way is up."
 We know that a certain amount of active experience is necessary for learning
complex technical details; none of us learns spreadsheets or word processors
simply by reading the manual, nor do students write perfect first programs
after reading the text and hearing our lectures.  We don't know enough
about the role of experience in learning computer science concepts to eliminate
the programming portion of our courses entirely, no matter how sloppy, open-ended,
demanding on the students, difficult to evaluate, and resource-consumptive
we may find them.    
 
 The issue of programming in introductory courses
is but one illustration of the risks we run in our rush to innovate:  We
may excise too much, undercutting some fundamentals that we educators have
internalized to the point that we regard them as trivial.  We disdain time
spent on programming language syntax and we think that I/O details are uninteresting,
but such "trivialities" still require non-zero time for the novice
to assimilate.    
 
 Example--Lisp as a First Language  
 
 Another trend with the potential of short-changing
time-tested fundamentals (and a trend which the author has worked to advance--no
reactionary Luddite he) is the teaching of Lisp dialects in introductory
courses.  A purely functional approach offers much in terms of elegance,
provability, parallelizability, and mathematical analysis.  But programmers
do use straight-line imperative sequencing, for example in interactive data
entry, and a failure to acknowledge this and exercise it misses a strong
tie-in with practical reality.  Students, after all, do not come to us pristine,
unsullied, and devoid of real-world taint; confining them to the hothouse
of pure functionality and interpreter-only interfaces fails to take advantage
of their experience or allow them to make connections with the software
they see (and have written) outside of school.     
 
 Example--OOP as the Introductory Paradigm  
 
 Yet another trend that might displace important
material is the introduction of object-oriented programming in introductory
courses.  The organizational benefits and practical applicability of the
object-oriented approach are undisputed, but students must still understand
input and output, variables and assignment, loops and conditionals, procedures
and functions, arrays and records before they can write real object-oriented
programs.  What gives way to make time for classes and methods and inheritance?
 How do objects preclude the need to cover programming fundamentals?    
 
 Example--C++ as a First Language  
 
 Even apart from its object orientation, C++ provides
a standardized language available on all major platforms, with a well-developed
mechanism for enforcing modularity and the ability to create "plug
and play" exercises that allow students to program "real"
things from the very beginning.  C++ is also used widely in industry, which
further motivates students to learn it.  Yet its industrial-strength nature
poses pedagogical problems.  One of the lessons of the 1960s was that big
isn't beautiful in programming languages.  Languages like PL/I helped
motivate Wirth to swing the pendulum towards simplicity with Pascal.  This
lesson is also one we learned in teaching computer science:  We want to
pare down the bells and whistles of the language we teach, so we can concentrate
on the underlying concepts rather than distinguishing between two dozen
ways of accomplishing the same task.  Will the very richness of C++, including
as it does much of the baroque syntax of C, land us back in the business
of defining manageable pedagogical subsets, as PL/C and PL/zero were for
PL/I?  
  
 Each of these trends has merit.  But those promoting
them must be prepared to consider and address the potential side effects
and tradeoffs of their innovations.  The reader is encouraged to think back
on the curricular debates he or she has heard or read, whether on these
four example issues or on others.  Have the proponents tried to answer the
hard questions, such as those raised above?  Or has the discourse been primarily
hand-waving advocacy ("This will work out great--you'll see!"),
better suited to the political stump or the revival tent than to scholarly
deliberation?    
 
 Pedagogical Goals  
 
 The key to implementing well-considered change
is to articulate carefully one's curricular goals and make a balanced
analysis of how any proposed change might affect them.   
 
 Discussions such as the panel "Computer Science:
 The First Year Beyond Language Issues" at the 1996 SIGCSE Conference  Endnotes  
contribute greatly to this deliberation.  
 
 Below we present one framework for describing
these goals, but this framework should serve only as one possible starting
point for discussion; no single listing can be definitive.  The categories
and criteria, not to mention the priority assigned to each, will of course
vary from one institution to another, depending on size, faculty, student
body, available  resources, and so on.  
 
 We start with a broader context--the goals of
a university computer science department:  
  
 Do good research and publish it  
  
 Get extramural funding for research programs  
  
 Increase the department's national reputation  
  
 Provide high-quality graduate and undergraduate
programs  
  
 Fulfill obligations to the rest of the campus
(e.g., courses for non-majors)  
  
 Maintain and improve the working environment for
faculty  
   
 Next we list some goals of a complete (four-year)
undergraduate program:  
  
 Provide well-trained graduates to industry  
   
 Technical knowledge and skills  
  
 Ability to adapt to changes  
  
 Ability to communicate and work with others  
   
 Provide well-schooled candidates to graduate schools  
  
 Produce well-educated citizen decision makers  
  
 Attract good students to the campus and the major  
  
 Increase the number of students served  
  
 Operate within constraints on finances and faculty
time  
   
 Finally we enumerate the goals of a first-year
course for computer science majors.  Students should:  
  
 Be prepared for further course work  
  
 Learn fundamental computer science principles  
   
 Algorithms and data structures  
  
 Analysis, design, and tradeoffs among them  
  
 Abstraction and information hiding  
  
 Exposure to the breadth of computer science as
a discipline  
   
 Know computing concepts at an introductory level  
   
 Data representation (bits and bytes)  
  
 Basic computer architecture:  processors, storage,
I/O, and so on  
  
 Characteristics of secondary storage and peripheral
devices  
  
 Basic software engineering:  the process of developing
software  
  
 Ethical, legal, and social issues surrounding
computing  
   
 Know how to use computing tools, such as  
   
 Word processors and spreadsheets  
  
 Network tools (Email, news, WWW)  
   
 Develop programming skills  
   
 Mechanics of entering and running code in some
environment  
  
 Programming "in the small"--single routines  
   
 Algorithms:  insert into a list, find the maximum,
linear search, sorting, ...  
  
 Data structures:  Array/table, queue, tree, ...  
   
 Abstraction and information hiding  
   
 Data and procedural abstraction  
  
 Distinguishing interface from implementation  
  
 Abstract data types/objects/classes  
  
 Combining routines, using predefined "API"s  
   
 Programming paradigms (especially OOP and functional)  
  
 Reading, understanding, debugging, and modifying
code  
  
 Analyzing code's correctness and performance;
mathematical tools  
  
 Adaptability to new concepts, tools, skills, environments,
paradigms, and languages  
   
 Decide whether computer science is the field they
want to pursue  
  
 Receive placement or credit for prior academic
computer science work (e.g., Advanced Placement Computer Science)  
   
   
 Conclusions  
 
 As noted above, specific goals and priorities
vary from institution to institution.  The effect of any proposed change
on each goal is likewise subject to debate.  But it is exactly this sort
of focused, reasoned deliberation that we should conduct when we consider
curricular change.  
 
 We need to explore new pedagogical avenues, but
we cannot abandon existing topics and approaches without thorough consideration
of the intellectual and experiential underpinning they provide.  We cannot
allow ourselves to become so enamored of our pet approaches that we fail
to acknowledge existing alternatives, both old and new.  We cannot impose
our own version of "pedagogical correctness" on our students.
 We owe them a balanced presentation in the introductory course, a solid
foundation on which their further education can build.  
 
  References   
 </body> 