 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
Publications with
 
Vida Dujmović
 
 
   Drawings of planar graphs with few slopes and segments.   V. Dujmović ,
D. Eppstein,
 M. Suderman ,
and
 D. R. Wood .  arXiv:math.CO/0606450 .   Comp.
Geom. Theory &amp; Applications  38: 194–212, 2007. 
 
We study straight-line drawings of planar graphs with few segments and
few slopes. Optimal results are obtained for all trees. Tight bounds are
obtained for outerplanar graphs, 2-trees, and planar 3-trees. We prove
that every 3-connected plane graph on n vertices has a plane drawing
with at most 5n/2 segments and at most 2n slopes. We prove that
every cubic 3-connected plane graph has a plane drawing with three
slopes (and three bends on the outerface).
  
    Structure of graphs with locally restricted crossings .  V. Dujmović ,
D. Eppstein, and
 D. R. Wood .  arXiv:1506.04380 .  23rd Int. Symp. Graph Drawing , Los Angeles, California, 2015.  Springer,  Lecture
Notes in Comp. Sci.  9411 (2015), pp. 87–98 .
 
The Graph Drawing version used the alternative title
"Genus, treewidth, and local crossing number".
We prove tight bounds on the treewidth of graphs embedded on low-genus
surfaces with few crossings per edge, and nearly tight bounds on the
number of crossings per edge for graphs with a given number of edges
embedded on low-genus surfaces.
  
( Slides )
  
    Track layouts, layered path decompositions, and leveled
planarity .  M. J. Bannister ,
 W. E. Devanny , and
 V. Dujmović ,
D. Eppstein, and
 D. R. Wood .  arXiv:1506.09145 .  24th Int. Symp. Graph Drawing , Athens, Greece, 2016.  
We introduce the concept of a layered path decomposition, and show that
the layered pathwidth can be used to characterize the leveled planar
graphs. As a consequence we show that finding the minimum number of
tracks in a track layout of a given graph is NP-complete.
The GD version includes only the parts concerning track layout,
and uses the title "Track Layout is Hard".
  
     
 Co-authors  --
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 