 Computational Statistics: Clustering<body>


 
  


  ICS 280, Spring 1999: 
Computational Statistics  

 Clustering 

 Clustering  refers to several related problems: partitioning a set
of input points into a fixed number of "closely related" subsets;
finding a small number of representative center points;
or matching the point distribution to a family of overlapping continuous
distributions.
This multiplicity of definitions can actually be helpful, as some major
clustering algorithms (particularly K-means) work by going back and forth
between the partition and representative-point view of the problem.

 Data Models 

There are a couple different ways of finding a data model for clustering.

 Most naturally, perhaps, the model can be like that for
 single point estimation :
there are some number  k  of actual data points,
which the data model chooses among.
The noise model then adds errors to these points, and we should
estimate their locations by partitioning them somehow and then applying
a single point estimation method to each subset.

  Alternatively, the data model can be that there are  k 
different overlayed random distributions of points (such as Gaussians),
the noise model merely samples random points from each distribution,
and the clustering task is to infer the distributions' parameters.
The difference with this second model is that it no longer makes
sense to sharply classify which point is part of which cluster;
the best one can do is estimate the likelihood that a given point
belongs to a given cluster.
For instance, if the data form two crossed Gaussians,
a point in the central crossing region might be equally likely to belong
to either distribution.

  Despite these principles, however, many clustering algorithms use ad
hoc ideas of choosing a partition that optimizes some functional or
other, without regard for how it fits into a data model.  Even
principled approaches such as K-means (which can be viewed as based on
max likelihood ideas) can't be proven to converge to the correct
clusters or even to find the global max likelihood solution.

  How many clusters to use? 

This is a hard question. For now let's just say that the number of
clusters is given as input.  There has been some work (Smyth?) on
automatically inferring the correct number of clusters; some
K-means-like clustering methods can merge or split clusters and
hopefully converge on something; alternatively, the problem of
hierarchical clustering can be viewed as simultaneously solving
clustering for each possible number of clusters.

  K-means  

The most commonly used clustering method can be seen as a Bayesian
(max likelihood) approach to the point model of clustering.
It is an iterative hill-climbing technique that is not guaranteed
to find any global maximum likelihood solution, and about which
little can be said theoretically, but works well in practice
and can be adapted to various different noise models.

 The basic idea is to maintain two estimates:
an estimate of the center locations for each cluster,
and a separate estimate of the partition of the data points
according to which one goes into which cluster.
Then, one estimate can be used to refine the other.

  If we have an estimate of the center locations,
then (with reasonable prior assumptions) the max likelihood solution
is that each data point
should belong to the cluster with the nearest center.
Here "nearest" should be measured according to a distance
determined by the noise model, as in  single
point estimation , but in practice is always Euclidean distance.
Therefore, from a set of center locations we can compute a new partition:
form the  Voronoi diagram  of the centers,
that is, a partition of space into the regions nearest each center,
and make a cluster from the set of points in each Voronoi cell.

  Conversely, if we have a partition of the data points into clusters,
the max likelihood estimate of the center locations reduces
to  k  independent single point estimation problems;
if likelihood is related to variance, the max likelihood estimator is just the centroid.

  Therefore the K-means algorithms proceeds by a sequence of phases in
which it alternates between moving data points to the cluster of the
nearest center, and moving center points to the nearest centroid.
There are variants depending on whether points are moved one at a time
or in batches; Kanungo et al.
[ KMNPSW99 ]
have looked at applying computational geometry data structures
to speed up each iteration of the algorithm.

   Optimal Solutions for Few Centers  

When the number of problems and the problem's dimension
are both small, clustering may become amenable to an exact algorithmic
approach.  The general type of problem considered in this area
is to partition the points into (usually) two subsets,
in order to minimize some function of the subsets.

 For example, the two-center problem
seeks to find a partition into two subsets that minimizes the maximum
circumradius.  One can come up with models for which this is a
max-likelihood solution (e.g. the noise model is that the points may be
moved arbitrarily within a bounded but unknown radius, with larger radii
being less likely than smaller ones) but this seems to be working in the
wrong direction: one should start with a noise model and derive
algorithms, not vice versa.
Since each point may safely be clustered with its nearest circumradius,
the optimal partition is formed by the Voronoi diagram of the two points,
which is just a line.
Early two-center algorithms found the optimal partition by testing all
O(n 2 ) ways of dividing the data points by a line.
More recently, it has been discovered that the problem can be solved
in time O(n polylog(n)) by more sophisticated geometric searching
algorithms
[ E97 ].

  The problem of minimizing the sum of distances from each point to its
center is known as the 2-median, since it generalizes the one-dimensional
median problem (which minimizes the sum of distances to the single center).
Again, the optimal partition is by a line, so a fast algorithm exists.
ther problems for which such a line partition works, and therefore
fast exact algorithms are known
include minimizing the sum (or any monotone combination)
of the circumradii
[ E92 ].

  The problem of finding a partition that minimizes the sum of intra-cluster distances (or, equivalently, maximizes the sum of inter-cluster distances)
is known as the "Euclidean max cut".
The partition is always formed by a circle [Schulman?]
and so the optimal solution can be found in polynomial time by testing
all O(n 3 ) ways of dividing the data points by a circle.

  Other two-center-like problems for which efficient algorithms are
known include finding partitions which minimize the maximum radius,
enclosing square size, or
enclosing rectangle area, perimeter, or diameter
[ HS91 ],
minimize the sum of the two cluster diameters
[ H92 ],
and minimizing the maximum width of the two clusters
[ AS94 ,
 GKS98 ].
This last problem can be thought of as one of clustering the data along
two lines rather than two points (with the L infinity  criterion
used within each cluster).

   Approximation and NP-hardness  

Most or all of the problems discussed above are NP-hard when the number
of clusters is variable
[ BE96 ].
Further,
it is often not possible even to approximate the function being optimized
(e.g. the maximum cluster radius) arbitrarily well, unless P=NP.
However, there exist simple greedy approximation algorithms
that get within a constant factor; e.g.
repeatedly choosing a new cluster center at the data point farthest
from previously chosen centers, and then grouping all unchosen points at
their nearest center, will approximate the radius within a factor of two.
Unfortunately, it is difficult or impossible to say much about
approximating the actual cluster locations rather than merely
approximating the criterion used to find the clusters.

 Overlayed Distributions 

 I vaguely recall that Smyth has done some work on the problem of
inferring the parameters of a set of overlayed Gaussians, using some
kind of Bayesian approach.  References and details?

  There are several ways of defining the problem formally.
From the Bayesian point of view, one should attempt to find the set
D of
distributions that maximizes the log-likelihood
  
    log Prior[D] + sum(log Prob[x i  | D])
 
where the (log Prior) term represents the a priori assumptions on which
distributions are more likely, and may be omitted (null hypothesis).
Alternatively, one could attempt to minimize the discrepancy
 
    max S  measure(S) - (# points in S)/(total # points)
 
where S is maximized over some simple class of functions e.g. halfspaces.

 One important application of the overlayed distribution model is in
the belief-propagation approach to coding theory: one assumes that
message bits that are sent out as signals with two discrete values (0
and 1) come back as values drawn from two random distributions.  One
needs to estimate these distributions in order to derive beliefs
(Bayesian probabilities) about which measurements are 0's and 1's; the
beliefs are then modified by a belief network to perform error
correction.  This problem fits very well into the discrete algorithmic
approach, since the number of data points (message length) is high, and
(at least in the simplest cases) one only needs to find two clusters in
one-dimensional data.  However, I don't know of any theoretical-CS work
on this sort of problem.

  The work mentioned above on finding a clustering that minimizes the
maximum cluster width can be also be viewed as a problem in which the
answer consists of overlayed distributions (two infinite strips that
together cover the point set).

   Geometric Sampling  

One way to view sampling is as a way of finding a representative subset
of the data. It may be ok (or even desired) that a large cluster in the
actual data be represented by several centers in the cluster output,
but it should not be possible for a large cluster of data points to be
missing a representative.
This can be formalized with the terminology of geometric sampling,
an area originally developed by statisticians but one that has been
used extensively within computational geometry as a technique for
deriving deterministic algorithms from randomized ones, since the
cluster centers derived from the theory behave in many ways like random
samples.

 Define a  range space  to consist of a "universe" U of objects
(often but not always points in  R  d ) together with a
family F of subsets of U (for instance, halfspaces of  R  d ).
We'll call a set R in F a "range".  
For any finite set S (not necessarily in F),
and any positive value epsilon,
define an
 epsilon-net  for S to be a subset N of S such that,
for any range R,
  
if |R intersect S| &gt; epsilon|S|,
then R intersect N must be nonempty.
 
In other words, N touches all large ranges in S.
Similarly, define an
 epsilon-approximation  to be a subset A of S such that,
for any range R,
 
-epsilon &lt; |S intersect R|/|S| - |A intersect R|/|A| &lt; epsilon.
 
In other words, R covers approximately the same fraction of A as it does
of S.
Any set S is always an epsilon-approximation for itself, and any
epsilon-approximation is always an epsilon-net.
But the important result about these range spaces is that,
for many important geometric examples, one can find much smaller
epsilon-nets and epsilon-approximations.  In fact, the size
of a net or approximation can be made to be a constant independent of S.

 Specifically, let F S  denote the family of sets formed
by intersecting ranges with S,
and define the "scaffold dimension" of a range space
to be the maximum of
  
log |F S | / log |S|
 
maximized over all finite sets S in U.
For instance, consider sets of points in the plane, with closed halfspace ranges.
For any halfspace containing more than one point of S,
pass through some pair of the points in the range.
So, if S contains n points
the size of F S  can be at most
n(n-1) + n + 1; with a little more care one can see that there are fewer
than n 2  such sets.  Therefore, the scaffold dimension of this
range space is st most two.  In general, it is safe to think of the scaffold
dimension as being roughly the number of points needed to determine a range,
so the scaffold dimension of circles would be three, and the scaffold
dimension of ellipses would be five.
(There is also an alternate definition of the dimension of a range space
called the "Vapnik-Chervonenkis dimension", but this is bounded iff the
scaffold dimension is bounded, and most proofs involving VC dimension 
can be expressed more directly in terms of the scaffold dimension.)

  Theorem:  For any set S in a range space with scaffold
dimension d, there exists an epsilon-net with size
O(d/epsilon log(d/epsilon)) and an epsilon-approximation
with size O(d/epsilon 2  log(d/epsilon)).

  The proof begins by observing that a
random sample of size O(1/epsilon log |F S |)
or O(1/epsilon 2  log |F S |) is with
constant probability
an epsilon-net or epsilon-approximation respectively.
Also, an epsilon/2-approximation of an epsilon/2-approximation
is itself an epsilon-approximation.
So, by induction, one can assume that there is a small epsilon/2-approximation,
take a random sample of it, and get (with constant probability)
an even smaller epsilon-approximation.
Then once the result for epsilon-approximations is proven,
one can take a random sample of a small epsilon-approximation to get a
small epsilon-net.
Although the above construction is randomized,
there exist deterministic algorithms for constructing epsilon-nets
and epsilon-approximations, with time bounds of the form O(n)
whenever d and 1/epsilon are bounded by O(1)
[citation to be filled in later].

  It would be reasonable to use an epsilon-net for the range space of
disks (or ellipses) as a form of clustering: the definitions above
would imply that every disk-shaped or elliptical cluster
of more than epsilon*n points would have a representative.

  As I mentioned above, epsilon-nets and epsilon-approximations
have been used extensively in geometric algorithms.  As an example
of a statistical application, consider the regression depth problem:
the appropriate range space is the family of double wedges bounded by one
vertical and one non-vertical hyperplane.  The regression depth
of a given hyperplane (measured as a fraction of the size of the overall data
set) is within epsilon of the regression depth of the hyperplane
relative to an epsilon-approximation of the data.  Therefore,
after linear-time preprocessing (computing an epsilon-approximation),
we can compute good approximations to the regression depth in constant time.
Further, the deepest plane with respect to the approximation
must be within epsilon of the deepest plane for the overall data set,
so we can approximate the depth of the deepest plane to within any (1-epsilon)
factor in linear total time
[ SW98 ].

   Other Types of Clustering Problems  

There has been recent interest in problems of "robust separation":
after you have partitioned the points into two clusters somehow
(or maybe a binary classification is already given as input),
how quickly
can you find a boundary plane that separates one side from the other
in a way that maximizes the distance of any point from the boundary?
This is equivalent to finding the closest pair of points in the convex
hulls of the two sides (note this is not the same as the closest pair of
data points) since the separating plane is the perpendicular bisector of
the segment between these two points.
The problem can be solved in linear time by LP-type methods
[ G95 ]
similar to those used for the  smallest
enclosing ball .
I am not aware of any implementation of these ideas, but perhaps
Gärtner's miniball code [ G99 ]
could be adapted to this problem.

 Another clustering-like problem is to find a single cluster among a
set of points, ignoring other less tightly clustered points.
Essentially, we discussed this already
under  robust single-point estimation ,
but the emphasis is different (here we might allow many more
than n/2 outliers) so algorithmically one can optimize for the case
when the number of points in the cluster is small.

   NEXT: Hierarchical Clustering  

  
 David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 Dept. Information &amp; Computer Science ,
 UC Irvine .  Last update:  
 </body> 