 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Features  


     
  

 
 

 Jessica Utts: An ambassador for statistics
  March 3, 2016  
  
 As ASA president, Utts looks forward to forging new relationships with statisticians and promoting the field worldwide. 
 



  
The Korail slum in Dhaka, Bangladesh houses an estimated 200,000 people, many in precariously built corrugated tin huts. Its residents are largely served by  BRAC , the largest non-governmental organization (NGO) in the world, who builds schools, clinics and supports women in business through microfinance, which provides women with small loans to open shops or buy a television that the community pays to watch, in turn economically empowering their selves and families.

  
In an underdeveloped, poverty-stricken area that relies on nonprofit and NGO aid, it is difficult for organizations to adequately address the needs of residents and distribute resources effectively. However, according to UCI Statistics Chair Jessica Utts, who also serves as president of the  American Statistical Association  (ASA), the field of statistics can play a pivotal role in this area.

  
“How can you predict poverty and wealth in a country? It’s very hard to get concrete data on that sort of thing,” explains Utts. “In a recent  article  in  Science , somebody came up with the idea of looking at mobile phone data. From that, you can correlate that with poverty and wealth because it is easier to get mobile phone records. ... There are also cases where statisticians may have good data on places on hospitals, survival rates and infant mortality rates,” Utts continues. “Organizations like BRAC can then evaluate if certain efforts are paying off.”

  
But such data is relatively superficial, and statisticians can provide even more critical information and analysis about the perils of underdeveloped regions. “The really intricate stuff that requires higher-level understanding is where we’re trying to use available data to make inferences about stuff that isn’t easily measurable or available,” Utts says.
 
  
Utts was able to witness BRAC at work on a recent trip to Dhaka, where she attended the  Dhaka University International Conference on Statistics , delivering one of the keynotes as part of her ASA duties. She also gave the keynote at a conference held by the  International Indian Statistical Association  just a few days prior. In her keynotes, Utts focused on the many ways statistics plays out in our daily lives—from deciding on purchasing an extended warranty to tracking our fitness with Fitbits. It’s part of the ASA’s effort to increase the public’s statistical education and literacy, done through ASA programs like “ This Is Statistics ,” which encourages high school students to explore the diverse careers available in the field, and  Stats.org , a resource to fact-check statistics in the news and for members of the media to increase their savvy.

  
Both conferences had a stated goal—statistics for population development—though Utts noted that the gatherings also allowed statisticians to bond over problems in the field that cross international boundaries. “The day I visited the Korail slum, they gathered around 20 statisticians and we were able to have a roundtable discussion,” she notes. “What really struck me was how similar the issues in Bangladesh are to the issues we’re facing here, such as: Statistics is such a fast-changing field with big data and ubiquitous computer use; we are trying to figure out how to educate our students for the modern world. We’re also trying to figure out how to get more students interested in statistics and how best to mentor the students we have.”

  
As part of her ASA duties, Utts will travel the world to continue a similar dialogue with other statisticians. She’s also crafted four initiatives that fit within the ASA’s strategic plans to:
   Get more information about statistics careers into high school classrooms—especially Advanced Placement classrooms;
     Provide media training to all ASA members who desire it;
     Create a group of “statistical ambassadors,” who are intensively media-trained and who will be proactive in reaching out to the media to correct when the field is misrepresented in the news; and
     Set priorities for research and statistics education, including NSF-funded workshops.
   
As she begins her three-year tenure as ASA President, Utts admits that she is most excited to travel and forge new relationships with statisticians the world over. “I’m really looking forward to meeting people and getting a broader understanding of our strengths and opportunities as statisticians,” she says.







   
   — Story by Courtney Hamilton  
   — Photos courtesy of Jessica Utts   





 
View a slideshow of images from Utts’ trip: 
  
 










  UCI ICS Feature: Jessica Utts: An ambassador for statistics
 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 