 The Geometry Junkyard: Escher<body>

 
   
 
  
  
Escher
 
The Dutch artist M. C. Escher was famous for drawings in which interlocking
people and animals combined to tile the plane.  A number of other
artists have followed in his footsteps.  Other pages here include work
related to Escher's drawings of polyhedra and impossible figures.
 
    Escher-inspired animorphic art 
by Kelly Houle, including "impossible figures" such as
 linked Penrose
tribars .
 
    David Bailey's
world of tesselations .
Primarily consists of Escher-like drawings but also includes
an interesting section about Kepler's work on polyhedra.
 
    Computer art
inspired by M. C. Escher and V. Vasarely , H. Kuiper.
 
    Contortion
Engineering . Some Escher-like impossible figures from Offworld
Press.
 
    Andrew Crompton .
Grotesque geometry, Tessellations, Lifelike Tilings, Escher style drawings,
Dissection Puzzles, Geometrical Graphics, Mathematical Art. 
Anamorphic Mirrors, Aperiodic tilings, Optical Machines.
 
    Delta Blocks .
Hop David discusses ideas for manufacturing building blocks based on
the tetrahedron-octahedron space tiling depicted in Escher's "Flatworms".
 
    Sylvie Donmoyer 
geometry-inspired paintings including Menger sponges and
a behind-the-scenes look at Escher's Stars.
 
    Escher for real  and
 beyond
Escher for real .
Gershon Elber uses layered manufacturing systems to build 3d models of
Escher's illusions.  The trick is to make some seemingly-flat surfaces
curve towards and away from the viewplane.
 
    
 
    Escher and the
Droste effect . Mathematical analysis of Escher's "Print Gallery".
 
    Escher
in the classroom , Jill Britton.
 
    Escher in the Palace .
The official web site of the Escher museum in The Hague.
 
    M. C. Escher: Artist
or Mathematician? 
 
    Escher Fish . Silvio Levy's tessellation of the Poincare model of the hyperbolic plane by fish in M.C. Escher's style.
From the Geometry Center archives.
 
    Escher patterns ,
Yoshiaki Araki.
 
    Escher
sphere construction kit . 
    Escher's
buildings in origami .
 
    Escher's
combinatorial patterns , D. Schattschneider, Elect. J. Combinatorics.
 
    Escherian Blast-Ended Skrewts .
 
    Escherization .
How to find a periodic tile as close as possible to a given shape?
Craig S. Kaplan, U. Washington.
     
 
    Robert Fathauer's Escher-like tesselation art .
 
    Frustro , a font made of Escherian impossible figures.
 
    Gallery of interactive on-line geometry .
The Geometry Center's collection includes programs for generating
Penrose tilings, making periodic drawings a la Escher in the Euclidean
and hyperbolic planes, playing pinball in negatively curved spaces,
viewing 3d objects, exploring the space of angle geometries, and
visualizing Riemann surfaces.
 
    Gecko Stone 
interlocking concrete pavers in geometric and animal shapes,
designed by John August.
 
    Helical Gallery .
Spirals in the
work of M. C. Escher
and in X-ray observations of the sun's corona.
 
    Houtrust Relief .
Nice photo of a 3d version of one of Escher's bird-fish textures, on the
wall of a water purifying plant in The Netherlands.
The same photographer has  several
other Escher photos  including one of  Metamorphoses in the
Hague post office .
 
    Intriguing
tessellations .
Marjorie Rice's Escher-like art.
 
    Jim ex machina .
Escher-like tessellations by Jim McNeill.
 
    Robert
F. Kauffman's fractal and Escherian art, with
Escher-like animated animal-form tilings.
 
   Landry Art ,
Escheresque tessellations, and balsa and paper polyhedra,
including some prints, t-shirts, and models available for purchase.
 
    Mathematical imagery by Jos Leys .
Knots, Escher tilings, spirals, fractals, circle inversions, hyperbolic
tilings, Penrose tilings, and more.
 
    Marcin Malinowski's Escher-like tesselations .
 
    Mathematical
lego sculptures  and  Escher Lego , Andrew Lipson.
 
    More
hyperbolic tilings  and software for creating them, J. Mount.
 
    Ozbird  Escher-like tessellations
by John Osborn, including several based on Penrose tilings.
 
    Ozzigami  tessellations,
papercraft, unfolded peel-n-stick glitter Platonic solids, and more.
 
    Penguins
on the hyperbolic plane , Misha Kapovich.
See also his Escher-like
 Crocodiles
on the Euclidean plane .
 
    Prints by Robert
Fathauer .  Escher-like interlocking animals form spiral tilings and
fractals.
 
    Peter
Raedschelder's page of Escher-like figures 
 
    Solid object which generates an anomalous picture .
Kokichi Sugihara makes models of Escher-like illusions from folded paper.
He has plenty more where this one came from, but maybe the others
aren't on the web.
 
    Tesselation
world  of Makoto Nakamura.
 
    Tessellations ,
a company which makes Puzzellations puzzles, posters, prints, and
kaleidoscopes inspired in part by Escher, Penrose, and Mendelbrot.
 
    Tessellations,  Periodic Drawings, Computer Graphics, Latticework, ... 
William Chow likes Escher-like patterns of interlocking figure
and really really long web page titles.
 
    Three-dimensional models based on the works of M. C. Escher 
 
    Tilable
perspectives .
Patrick Snels creates two-dimensional images which tile the plane to
form 3d-looking views including some interesting Escher-like warped
perspectives.
See also his even more Escherian  tesselations page .
 
    On
a tiling scheme by M. C. Escher , D. Davis, Elect. J. Combinatorics.
 
    Totally Tessellated .
Mosaics, tilings, Escher, and beyond.
 
    Trefoil
knot stairs .  Java animation of an Escher-like infinite stair construction,
intended as a Montreal metro station sculpture,
by Guillaume LaBelle.
 
    Triangles and squares .
Slides from a talk I gave relating a simple 2d puzzle, Escher's drawings
of 3d polyhedra, and the combinatorics of 4d polytopes, via angles in
hyperbolic space.  Warning: very large file (~8Mb).
For more technical details see
 my
paper with Kuperberg and Ziegler .
 
      
 
    Visual math ,
the mathematical art of M. C. Escher.
 
    Westside Impressions 
sells Escher T-shirts.
 
       
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  Send email  if you
know of an appropriate page not listed here.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 