 Homeworks and Quizzes<body>
 
  
      
         
      Supplemental Reading
          
     
       
    Topic / Paper Title   
     
       
    Brief Summary / Notes  
      
     
     
                   
	 Operating System Concepts - Online Chapters 
           
       
       
          
	These additional chapters provide three case studies of specific types
	of operating systems, FreeBSD, Mach and Windows 2000.
          
       
       
                   
	  
	  Therac-25 Radiation Therapy Machine 
           
       
       
          
        A radiation-treatment machine that gave massive overdoses to several patients due to
	buggy programming.  A classic case study that highlights the dangers of software control of safety-critical systems.
	  
       
       
                   
	 The Little Book of Semaphores 
           
       
       
          
	Good supplemental reading about concurrency and synchronization.
          
       
       
                   
	 Linux Kernel Development 
           
       
       
          
	 Take an in-depth look at Linux kernel from both a theoretical and an applied perspective.
          
       
       
                   
	  
	The UNIX time-sharing system 
           
       
       
          
	D. M. Ritchie and K. Thompson:  The UNIX Time-Sharing System ,
	Communications of the ACM, 17(7):365-375pp. July, 1974.
          
       
       
                   
	 FreeBSD 
           
       
       
          
	The FreeBSD Project homepage.
          
       
       
                   
	 
	My recollections of operating system design  
           
       
       
          
	  
	In Pursuit of Simplicity, the manuscripts of Edsger W. Dijkstra 
          
       
       
                   
	  
	Linkers and Loaders 
           
       
       
          
	L. Presser  and  J.R. White:  Linkers and Loaders , 
	Computing Surveys, 4(3):149-167pp. September, 1972.
          
       
       
                   
	  
	The Performance Effect of I/O Optimizations and Disk Improvements 
           
       
       
          
	W. Hsu and A.J. Smith:  The Performance Effect of I/O Optimizations
	and Disk Improvements , IBM J. of Research and Development, 
	48(2):255-289pp. March, 2004.
          
       
       
                   
	 
	Lottery Scheduling: Flexible Proportional-Share Resource Management 
           
       
       
          	
	C.A. Waldspurger and W.E. Weihl:
	  Lottery Scheduling: Flexible Proportional-Share Resource 
	Management  , Proceeedings of the First Symposium on Operating 
	System Design and Implementation, 1994.
          
       
        
 
</body> 