 SPIN Flyer<body>

 
 
University of California at Irvine   Irvine Research Unit in Software
(IRUS)  is proud to sponsor the 

 

  
 Software Process Improvement
Network (SPIN)  

 
Team Software Process 

 
* Friday, December 4, 1998 * 
9:00 a.m. - 12:00 noon    Student Center, Monarch
Bay A &amp; B  </strong> 

University of California, Irvine

 

 There is a $15.00 charge for non-sponsors. 

Checks should be made payable to  UC Regents . 
This Charge is waived for students and the unemployed.  

 

   No reservations required.  

   
  Featured Speaker: Watts S. Humphrey, SEI Fellow, Software
Engineering  
&amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp
Institute,  Carnegie Mellon University ,
 watts@sei.cmu.edu   

 The Team Software Process (TSP)  SM   has
been designed to help engineering teams more effectively develop software
intensive products. TSP  SM   has been used
with pure software teams and with mixed teams of hardware and software
engineers. TSP  SM   has also been used for
both new development and enhancement and with commercial and imbedded real-time
systems. The languages used have included Java, C, Jovial, C++, and special
4GLs. TSP  SM   can be used with teams of from
2 to 20 engineers developing or enhancing software-intensive systems. Its
objective is to assist the engineers in producing quality products on their
planned schedules and within their estimated costs.

  This talk describes TSP's  SM   objectives,
the logic behind the TSP  SM   process, and
the relationships among the TSP  SM ,  PSP  SM  ,
and CMM  ® . A growing number of organizations have used the
TSP SM  and this talk will describe the experiences
of several of them and provide some data on their results. Finally, the
talk briefly reviews the TSP  SM   introduction
strategy and some of the key issues involved in successfully introducing
the TSP  SM  .

   Biography:  Mr. Humphrey is currently an SEI Fellow at the Software
Engineering Institute (SEI) of Carnegie Mellon University. He joined the
SEI after his retirement from IBM in 1986. While at the SEI, he established
the Process Program, led the initial development of the Capability Maturity
Model SM  (CMM  ®  ) framework for software
for institutional growth, and introduced the concepts of Software Process
Assessment and Software Capability Evaluation. The CMM  ®  is
now used by software organizations throughout the world to guide their
process improvement work. It has become the standard used by the U.S. Department
of Defense, the British Ministry of Defense, and many other government
departments and industrial corporations to evaluate their own capabilities
and those of their software suppliers. His most recent work is on the Personal
Software Process  SM   (PSP  SM  )
and the Team Software Process  SM   (TSP  SM  ).

  Prior to joining the SEI, Mr. Humphrey spent 27 years with IBM in various
technical executive positions including the management of all IBM commercial
software development. This included the first 19 releases of OS/360. He
was also IBMs Vice President of Technical Development, responsible for
the system architecture and software development for the IBM System 370
product line. At one time, while he was IBM director of Policy Development,
he was responsible for IBMs world-wide hardware and software contracts
and competitive practices. Most recently, he was IBM's Director of Programming
Quality and Process.

  Mr. Humphrey holds graduate degrees in Physics from the Illinois Institute
of Technology and Business Administration from the University of Chicago.
He is an SEI Fellow, a member of the ACM, an IEEE Fellow, and a past member
of the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award Board of Examiners. He was
awarded the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Software
Engineering Award for 1993, and the SEI Leadership Award in 1997. His publications
include many technical papers and six books. His most recent books are:
"Managing the Software Process" (1989), "A Discipline for Software Engineering"
(1995), "Managing Technical People" (1996), and "Introduction to the Personal
Software Process" (1997). He holds five US. Patents.

    SM   Capability Maturity Model, Personal
Software Process, PSP, Team Software Process, and TSP are service marks
of Carnegie Mellon University.

  
 ®  Registered in the U. S. Patent and Trademark Office.

   Coordinator:  Leitha Purcell, 
 Northrop Grumman Corporation , 
 purcele@mail.northgrum.com , 
&amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp
 lapurcell@earthlink.com 

  

 
UCI Maps and Directions  to meeting are available.

  Next Meeting:
  Date: Friday, January 29, 1999
 Topic: 
 Discussion of
 the Software Development Capability Evaluation (SDCE)  

The Irvine Research Unit in Software wishes to thank its 
 corporate sponsors :

 Sustaining:
  
The Boeing Company * Boeing North American, Inc. * Microsoft Corporation 
Northrop Grumman Corporation * Raytheon Company * Sun Microsystems Laboratories * TRW
 

Supporting:
 
 Supporting:
     Beckman Coulter * FileNet Corporation * Printronix, Inc.* 
    Continuus Software Corporation * Hewlett Packard
  

For further information on  SPIN 
or  IRUS, 
 
contact  Debra Brodbeck 
at (949) 824-2260,  brodbeck@ics.uci.edu  

  
  
  

 
   
 Irvine Research Unit in Software  

  Information and Computer Science 
 University of California, Irvine CA 92697-3425
</body> 