 Web User Interface Wireframe of U.S. Presidential Election Board Game<body>   
  
   

     
      
       
        
           Research 
        

        
           Projects 
        
        
        
           News 
        

        
           Notes 
        

        
           CV 
        
       
      
        

       
      
         
             /
          
             Projects  / Web User Interface Wireframe of U.S. Presidential Election Board Game
          
         
                 

     


    
    Web User Interface Wireframe of U.S. Presidential Election Board Game 


 
   
    September 2011 to December 2011
   
  
   Developed wireframe of a web based user interface of an existing board game based on the U.S. Presidential Elections as a part of a 6 man team. Conducted Cognitive Walkthroughs and Heuristic Evaluations for the wireframes developed. The scope of the wireframes was limited to the first two phases, i.e. the Primaries and Conventions. 

 The objective of the project was to take the first steps in designing the user interface of a Web based game version of an existing US presidential elections board game created by Jean-Claude Falmagne. 

 The detailed project report can be found here:  report ; and the screen shots of the mockups can be found here:  wireframes . 

 

  TL;DR  - UI wireframe for an online game based on the U.S. Presidential Elections.  

 
	  Tags: 
	
		 Class Project 
		
			   
		
	
		 HCI 
		
	
 
 

 
   Related Posts 
     07 Oct 2015  »  Spider SENSE: Software-Engineering, Networked, System Evaluation  
    
        07 Oct 2015  »  Revealing Runtime Features and Constituent Behaviors within Software  
    
        01 Oct 2015  »  Attended VISSOFT 2015  
    
    


       
       
         home  •
          bitbucket .com  •
         Linked in   •
         Instagram  •
         medium  •
         stack overflow   •
          github .com   •
          arch ives 
        •
        Background:  Mt. Ranier , © Vijay Krishna Palepu, 2015
        
       
         
   
   
  
</body> 