 <body>

    UC IRVINE - ICS 125 PROJECT IN SYSTEM DESIGN 
     PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
     
      

KLAX Game

KLAX is a simple single-player game (screenshot at
http://www.ics.uci.edu/pub/arch/images/KLAX.gif). What's unique about KLAX
is that it's completely implemented using small, discrete, flexible
components. KLAX's architecture diagram can be found at
http://www.ics.uci.edu/pub/arch/images/klax-arch.gif.

The components that make up the KLAX game can be divided into three logical
groups. The  game state  components at the top of the architecture are
responsible for storing and maintaining the game's state (the score, number
of lives, the positions of all the tiles in the game, etc). The  game
logic  components immediately below observe the game's state and change
it in accordance with the game rules. For example, every time the clock
advances, the tile matching component determines whether or not there is a
match in the game well. The artist components draw the game's state
on the screen by sending messages to the graphics binding component. The
GraphicsBinding component translates user events, such as key presses, into
messages for the artist components. The connectors are responsible for
routing messages between components.

A KLAX project requires you to:

1. Suggest three or four new features for KLAX (some easy, some difficult).
For comparison, a previous ICS 125b team added a high score list (easy) and
multi-player support (hard). From your list, we'll work together to select
two for the project.

2. Understand how KLAX works. This means understanding what each component
does and how it interacts with the other components.

3. Design your two features and decide how you're going to modify KLAX's
architecture to implement them.

4. Implement your features and integrate them with KLAX's architecture. You
can also package your features as software add-ons so that they may be
downloaded from a Web site and dynamically installed.
 

 
If you have any questions, e-mail to  Paymen.  
 
    ICS125 WQ00 Project Opportunities   ICS125 WQ00   David F. Redmiles ?Home Page   Department of Information and Computer Science   University of California, Irvine CA 92717-3425   
</body> 