 SPIN Flyer<body> 
 

 

  University of California at Irvine

  Irvine Research Unit in Software 
(IRUS)   
is proud to sponsor the 

 

   Software Process 
Improvement Network (SPIN)  


 Getting the Most Out of Your Integrated Product Development Teams: 
Lessons Learned &amp; A CMM For All Disciplines
 

 


   Friday, April 30, 1999   

9:00 a.m. - 12:00 noon 
McDonnell Douglas Auditorium 
University of California, Irvine  

There is a $15.00 charge for non-sponsors.  
Checks should be made payable to  UC Regents</strong>.

  

 No reservations required.      

  

 

Speakers:
 
Kerinia Cusick, Director &amp; Ilene Minnich, Director,

 SECAT LLC , 
 secat@secat.com 
 

 
This presentation focuses on two views of getting the most out of your
integrated product development teams.  The first examines a
collection of lessons learned by eight development organizations who
successfully implemented their integrated product development
teams.  A series of people from a variety of companies were interviewed
as part of the development process for the Integrated Product
Development Capability Maturity Model (IPD-CMM), during which we
gathered information on what they believed to be the important
aspects of Integrated Product Development, and what they had learned in
the process. This presentation is a summary of the key points
gathered from those interviews, as well as a collection of the primary
characteristics that we believe distinguish good Integrated Product
Development.

  

The second view of getting the most out of your integrated product
development teams examines the use of a Capability Maturity Model
that they can use to focus and guide their improvement activities.
Honeywell Space Systems Operations in cooperation with SECAT LLC
developed a "generic Capability Maturity Model" -- called the IPDP CMM--
that includes only project and organizational management
issues, and as such was designed to be applicable to all disciplines.
The first assessment against the model was done in 1998 with 8
disciplines participating, and a follow-up assessment was performed in
early 1999 focusing on the weaker areas identified the previous
year.  A rating profile was developed for each discipline, and both
generic and specific strengths and weaknesses were identified.  A few
lessons learned were identified during the assessment, but generally all
of the teams found the results applicable and helpful.
 
  

 Biographies: </strong>
Kerinia Cusick, a co-founder of SECAT LLC, is one of the authors of the
Industrial Collaboration Systems Engineering Capability Maturity Model
(SE-CMM), and the Integrated Product Development Capability Maturity
Model (IPD-CMM).  She is a very experienced SE-CMM teacher, assessor,
and process improvement expert.  Kerinia started her career at Grumman
Aerospace working on digital flight control systems for experimental and
fighter aircraft.  At Hughes, Kerinia transferred to systems
engineering,
working projects ranging from commercial communication satellites to
Space Defense Initiative conceptual design studies.  Kerinia holds a
M.S. in Systems Management from University of Southern California, and
a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Drexel University.
  
Ilene Minnich, a SECAT LLC founding partner, is an experienced
Capability Maturity Model (CMM) author, assessor and trainer.  She
participated as an author during the development of the SE-CMM and
the Assessment Method and as a steering group member for the development
of the Integrated Product Development CMM. She has also served as a key
reviewer for the Systems Security Engineering CMM, the Electronics
Industry Association's Systems Engineering Capability Model, and the
Software Engineering Institute's CMM Integration project.  Ilene has
written and presented papers in both the U.S. and internationally, on
several topics pertaining to lessons learned using the SE-CMM and using
the SE-CMM for process improvement.  In her previous position at Hughes
Aircraft Company, Ilene was responsible for the deployment of the SE-CMM
and the conduct of SE-CMM assessments at all of the systems engineering
organizations within Hughes Aircraft Company.  She also has experience
in the design and development of both commercial and government products
at Hughes Aircraft Company and IBM. Ilene holds a B.S. in Computing
Science from Lehigh University and an M.S. in Computer Engineering from
the University of Southern California.
  

 Coordinator: </strong>George O'Mary, 
 The Boeing Company , 
 george.w.o'mary@west.boeing.com
 

  

 
UCI Maps and Directions  to meeting are available.
  


 Next Meeting: </strong>  

  
Date: May 28, 1999 
Topic: 
Introduction to UML for Software Development 
 
Speaker: Ed Colbert, Absolute Software 
 
Coordinator: A. Winsor Brown, University of Southern California,
 awbrown@sunset.usc.edu 
 

 

The Irvine Research Unit in Software wishes to thank its 
 corporate sponsors :

  

 Sustaining:</strong>
  
The Boeing Company * IBM * Microsoft Corporation * Northrop Grumman Corporation
 Raytheon Company * Sun Microsystems Laboratories * TRW 

 

 Supporting:</strong>
  
    Beckman Coulter * FileNet Corporation * Printronix, Inc.* 
    Continuus Software Corporation * Hewlett Packard
 

 

For further information on 
 SPIN  or 
 IRUS,    contact  Debra Brodbeck 
at (949) 824-2260, 
 brodbeck@ics.uci.edu 
 

     
  
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science  
University of California, Irvine  CA 92697-3425   
</body> 