 UCI Team Places Third in Microsoft’s Speller Challenge @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 UCI Team Places Third in Microsoft’s Speller Challenge 

 
 

 
    Ph.D. student Yasser Ganjisaffar accepts the UCI team's award certificate from   Microsoft VP Harry Shum</strong> </strong>  
  
After typing “compter science” into a search engine, most of us don’t think twice about getting results instead for the corrected term “computer science.” The mechanisms behind that correction, however, are anything but simple.
 
 
A team of UCI Bren School students recently delved into this problem by entering Microsoft Research and Bing’s “ Speller Challenge ” and finishing in third place among 100+ competitors worldwide. The aim of the Challenge was to build the best speller — one that proposes the most plausible spelling alternatives for each (potentially misspelled) search query. Spellers were encouraged to use cloud computing to process the terabytes of data needed for a Web-scale speller. 
 
 
Advised by Associate Professor Chen Li, the UCI team included Ph.D. students Yasser Ganjisaffar (team leader), Sara Javanmardi and Inci Cetindil; M.S. students Manik Sikka and Sandeep Paul Katumalla; visiting student Andrea Zilio from Italy; and volunteer student Narges Khatib-Astaneh, who will join the M.S. program in ICS this fall. They were recognized during an award ceremony held July 20 at the Microsoft Bing Headquarters in Bellevue, Wash. 
 
 
“Unlike previous data mining competitions in which we had participated, this challenge needed several months of work just to prepare the data sets and the infrastructure needed for processing queries,” says Ganjisaffar, who with Javanmardi works under the supervision of Associate Professor Cristina Lopes. “It was a great experience to solve a Web-scale problem.”
 
 
The UCI team’s program,  qSpell , addresses the challenges of Web-scale natural language processing. According to the students’ analysis, roughly 10-15 percent of the queries sent to search engines contain spelling errors or typos. These typos must be corrected for users to find their desired results. 
 
 
“My research group has been working on topics related to Web search, especially on how to deal with errors and inconsistencies in data and queries,” Li explains. “This Microsoft Challenge provided us a great opportunity to test our techniques and help students solve interesting Web-scale problems. The students worked very hard, and I am proud of what they have achieved.” 
 
 — PG  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 