 Handouts<body>

 
 Handouts 
 
  ICS-31: Introduction to Programming   
  
  
The following is a list of general-purpose handouts available for this course.
You may also want to look at related materials on the following web pages:
    Lecture/lab Schedule/Notes ,
   Programming Assignments ,
   Sample Programs 
   Course Software 
    

  Computer Infrastructure 

 
 Java  (Download/Installation Instructions) 
Instructions and links for downloading and installing Java,
  which is needed to run the Eclipse IDE.
Although we will develop programs using Python in Eclipse,
  you need to follow these instructions for Java first.
 


 
 Python  (Download/Installation Instructions) 
Instructions and links for downloading and installing Python,
  which we will run in the Eclipse IDE.
  


 
 Eclipse for Python  (Download/Installation Instructions) 
Instructions and links for downloading and installing the Eclipse IDE,
  in which we will develop Python programs.
  


 
  Python Programming in the Eclipse IDE  (Overview/Tutorial) 
Instructions for using Eclipse to develop Python programs.
This document acts as an overview and tutorial for using Python in Eclipse.
  


 
  The Debugger Perspective in Eclipse  
A reference and tutorial on using the Debugger Perspective in Eclipse.
It includes information about observing script variables, single
  stepping through code in scripts, and setting/clearing unconditional and
  conditional breakpoints.
  
   


  Pair Programming/Program Submission 

 Pair Programming  
An introduction to Extreme Programming (XP) concentrating on testing and
  pair programming.
Read this before doing pair-programming on a programming assignment.
 


 
  Checkmate Homework Submissions  
Instructions for submitting work on the Checkmate System.
  

   


  Miscellaneous 

 
  Academic Integrity Contract  
Discusses the kinds of collaboration allowed and disallowed for the
  various testing instruments in this course.
You must read and sign a copy.
In case you are interested, here is the standard 
   form 
  UCI supplies instructors for reporting acadmic integrity violations.
 


 ASCII Character Set Reference  
A table showing how values of the types  int  and  char 
  interconvert.
  

 Bugs: An Explanation  
A description of  bugs  in the context of computer programming.
  


 Glossary  
A glossary defining many important programming (and Java) terms.
  

]
 Hackers and Painters  
The title (and most interesting chapter) in a book written by 
     Paul Graham :
 Hackers and Programmers: Big Ideas from the Computer Age .
I highly recommend this book.
All chapters are posted on the author's web pages.
  


 Regular Expressions  
In the context of studying EBNF, we will discuss using regular expressions
  for searching in the Eclipse text editor.
Each regular expression is like the right hand side of an EBNF rule,
  although it uses a different notation and includes more options.
Three other popular (by google) web sites are
   
    Regular Expressions  and
   
    Using Regular Expressions  and
   
    A Tao of Regular Expressions .
  


  </body> 