 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  December 7,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         All work and game play</strong>
              Computer Game Showcase highlights undergraduate talent.
    
                    
Students love an opportunity to develop their own games. And develop they did!

  
During finals week, an end-of-quarter project showcase successfully demonstrated the many talents of UC Irvine’s future game designers, many of whom may even enter the fast-growing Orange County industry.


  
The course, Computer Game Development (CS 113/INF 125) taught by Informatics Lecturer Darren Denenberg, requires students to not only develop programming skills, but also marketing savvy. Each group assembled a full suite of marketing materials, a business plan and a professional website to complement their games.

  
“The students and games created this quarter were fantastic, everyone did a great job and I am really proud of each of them,” said Denenberg.

  
Each team took on the form of a company – complete with name, logo, structure and byline – developing its inaugural product.

  
"Throughout the course, I emphasize creativity in game design and development and I feel the groups really lived up to that," said Denenberg. "Some pushed an existing genre forward, others applied a unique twist, while others created something wholly original.”

  
In total 21 games, created by 116 students, were successfully created from start to finish in 10 weeks.

  
Games influenced by current events, like  Harambe on the Run  inspired by the toddler who fell into the Cincinnati Zoo’s gorilla enclosure last May, used satire to express their creators’ feelings for the incident. In  Harambe , players aim to increase their high score by helping the ill-fated gorilla avoid bullets and collect bananas.

  
“Our inspiration for this game came from the responses we were witnessing on social media. This game has been designed to honor the memory of Harambe and animals in captivity,” said its creators (Computer Science majors Adam Roke and Ved Kirloskar, and Informatics majors Brittany Young, Germain Ortiz and Lane Krejcik).

  
Other games, such as the anime-inspired, fast-paced PVP survival arena game   NovaFest ,  took a more lighthearted approach to their design. In  NovaFest , multiple players engage in battle while also avoiding such adorable hazards as PLOO (intersteller poop) and the KITTY KANNON (as the name implies, a huggable cat cannon).  NovaFes t was created by computer science majors Marcelo Autran, Leon Cao (CS/engineering), Brandon Cheng, Edward Duong,  Jenny Tran  (art minor), Hector Vega and Tim Park.

  
“We did a lot of brainstorming on this and knew we wanted to do a multiplayer game from the start since we play a lot of party games,” said Autran. “It was a lot of work, but also really fun.”

  
The students engaged in a significant amount of self-learning and problem-solving during the quarter, and it certainly shines through in their work.

  
“It's very fulfilling to see them show off their achievements after overcoming hurdles both technical and otherwise,” said Denenberg.

  
 View  photos  from the Fall 2016 Computer Game Development Showcase.   


   All work and game play    
                &lt; Previous 
                 UCI team places first in regional ACM competition, advances to international finals in May


              
                Next &gt; 
                 UCI ranked 7th best university for coding in U.S. by HackerRank


             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 