 Structural Testing of Concurrent Programs | Virtual Collaboration Portal 


    

     
     

       
         
           Virtual Collaboration Portal            

                     Home  
  Groups  
  Collaborators  
   

               
           
  
   
  Search this site:  
  
 

 
            

   Navigation 

      Bibliography    Authors  
  Keywords  
  
  Reading Lists  
  Web Links  
  Gallery  
  Recent posts  
  Acknowledgements  
  
 
 

   User login 

   
  
  Username:  *  
  
 
  Password:  *  
  
    Request new password  
   
 
 
         
      
          
            Home  ›  Bibliography                                 Structural Testing of Concurrent Programs                                                    
             

 
   


       Mon, 2009-08-24 14:36 — taylor 
  
   
           Title  Structural Testing of Concurrent Programs     Publication Type  Journal Article     Year of Publication  1992     Authors   Taylor, R. N. ,  D. L. Levine , and  C. D. Kelly      Journal  IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering     Volume  18     Pagination  206-216     Date Published  March     Keywords   Concurrent programming ,  Concurrent programming--Technique ,  Criteria ,  Hierarchical Organization ,  New Technique ,  Software Engineering ,  Structural Analysis Software ,  Testing      Abstract   Several metrics for structural testing methodologies are examined. The application of structural testing criteria to concurrent programs is examined and a hierarchy of supporting structural testing techniques is proposed. The coverage criteria include state transition, concurrency state and synchronization. A static concurrency analyzer and a program transformation system or powerful run-time monitor are required. A controllable run-time scheduler is also helpful. The best results are experienced with programs that have static naming of tasking objects. The testing techniques are applicable for Ada or CSP-type languages. 
         

   
     
         

               Login  to post comments  
  
       

 
           
                      
           

      
      
   


  </body> 