 Week 6: Southern California Gas Company Info Session – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         
         
             

                            
                 Week 6: Southern California Gas Company Info Session 
                          
                                
                                         

            
               Info Session    by admin 

            
                        on 11/09/2013 

                                
                                
                                   </strong>                                               « prev        1     2        next »    (6 Photos)  
 Monday, November 4th, representatives Tu Bui, Justin Wong, and team lead Annavic Duyongco of the Southern California Gas Company came and talked to WICS. Over 15 people attended and had a chance to learn more about SCGC. 
 SCGC offers many student opportunities such as paid internships and full time jobs that provide training and an insight on different possible fields to work in. There are many fun activities and team building involved in working at SCGC. They have many site locations and for tech positions, SCGC allows interns and associates to choose from a large range of different programming languages to use of your liking. SCGC even offers a Mentorship program for the newcomers to have a chance to see what their future might look light and have someone to guild them there. 
 SCGC is currently hiring, check out their website or contact WICS if you wish to learn more on how to apply! 
 WICS hopes that everyone did well on their midterms and if you were too busy to attend some of our meetings, there are a few more weeks left of relaxation before Finals! Stay updated with WICS’s future events and come out to have some fun or just eat some food! 
   Share this:        Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)        
 
	  Related  
 
                                  

                             
         
     

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 
</body> 