 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Articles  


     
  

 
 

  March 22,  2016</strong>      Utts spearheads efforts to improve statistical accuracy
</strong>      
Professor and Chair of Statistics  Jessica Utts</strong> is fighting for a more accurate use of statistics in her tenure as president of the American Statistical Association ( ASA ), starting with the organization’s recently released statement against the misuse of p-values, the first of its kind in the association’s 177 years.

  
The “ Statement on Statistical Significance and  P -Values ” outlines six principles underlying the proper use and interpretation of statistical P values, one of the most commonly used determinants of statistical significance. These principles are:
   P-values can indicate how incompatible the data are with a specified statistical model.
     P-values do not measure the probability that the studied hypothesis is true, or the probability that the data were produced by random chance alone.
     Scientific conclusions and business or policy decisions should not be based only on whether a p-value passes a specific threshold.
     Proper inference requires full reporting and transparency.
     A p-value, or statistical significance, does not measure the size of an effect or the importance of a result.
     By itself, a p-value does not provide a good measure of evidence regarding a model or hypothesis.
  

“The ASA releases this guidance on p-values to improve the conduct and interpretation of quantitative science and inform the growing emphasis on reproducibility of science research,” a  news release  on the statement reads. “The statement also notes that the increased quantification of scientific research and a proliferation of large, complex data sets has expanded the scope for statistics and the importance of appropriately chosen techniques, properly conducted analyses, and correct interpretation.”

 
The ASA released the statement in light of a growing struggle to reproduce statistical research—an important step in the scientific method. Statisticians and other researchers, the ASA argues, shouldn’t rely solely on p-values to determine the strength of their findings, or else they risk what  Nature  calls “falsely robust” results. Rather, quality statistical research will report findings on a variety of criteria.

  
“Over time it appears the p-value has become a gatekeeper for whether work is publishable, at least in some fields,” Utts says. “This apparent editorial bias leads to the ‘file-drawer effect,’ in which research with statistically significant outcomes are much more likely to get published, while other work that might well be just as important scientifically is never seen in print. It also leads to practices called by such names as ‘p-hacking’ and ‘data dredging’ that emphasize the search for small p-values over other statistical and scientific reasoning.”

  
According to Utts, while the contents of the ASA statement and the reasoning behind it are not new, this is the first time that the statistics community, as represented by the ASA Board of Directors, has issued a statement to address these issues.






   Utts spearheads efforts to improve statistical accuracy
 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 