 2012 Eugene Cota-Robles Fellow Profile @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 2012 Eugene Cota-Robles Fellow Profile 

 
 

 
 Q&amp;A with Kristin Roher 
1st-year Ph.D. student in Informatics  
 
 




 
 
 
Kristin Roher received a 2012 Eugene Cota-Robles ( ECR ) Fellowship, awarded by the UC Irvine Graduate Division. Considered the most prestigious diversity fellowship offered at UCI, the ECR is named in honor of one of the earliest Mexican-American professors in the University of California. The fellowship is designed to increase the number of qualified candidates for faculty positions within the UC; it places students interested in careers in academic teaching and research on a fast track toward achieving their doctoral degree.
 
 


 
  
 
 Where are you from?    
I grew up in town called Lewisberry, just outside of Harrisburg, Pa. 
 
 
 What are your previous academic degrees?    
B.S. in computer engineering from the University of Pittsburgh. 
 
 
 Why did you choose to pursue graduate studies at UCI?    
My advisor at Pitt recommended that I check out UCI because he knew Professor Debra Richardson (now my advisor) from when he was in graduate school. He said her interests seem to be in line with mine, and he was right. I also really wanted to go somewhere in California for the warm weather. 
 
 
 What is your current research focus? Why did you choose to go into this field of study?    
My research goal is to contribute to the effort of aiding developing societies in becoming more environmentally sustainable through IT interventions — “greening through IT” — which I hope will help reduce the looming threats of global climate change and other environmental concerns. Complementary to this, I am interested in designing technologies that will help software developers build systems that meet stakeholder needs while reducing the environmental impacts brought about by those systems — “Software Engineering for Sustainability.”
 
 
 What are your future plans?    
I plan to stay in academia because I like the flexibility that it will offer in terms of the research I’ll be doing. 
 
 
 How do you like to spend your time outside of school?    
I enjoy swimming, biking, hiking, wine tasting and hanging out with friends. 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 