 INF 133 Fall 2010-2011: User Interaction Software<body>
 Informatics 133: User Interaction Software  
 Fall 2010-2011 
 Department of Informatics 
 Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  
  
    Home  |  Administrative Policies   |  Course Structure  |  Materials  |  Assignment Schedule   
 
 
    Attendance :  
   
     Students are responsible for material that is disseminated during class. If you miss class, please arrange before-hand with a friend to get notes/handouts for you. If you know you are going to miss something important, contact the instructor beforehand. It's much easier to accommodate planned absences.  
       
     Students are responsible for all material taught in this course.  If you join the class later in the quarter, you are expected to complete all missed work immediately. 
       
     Attendance is part of your grade.  
   
 
 
    Announcements :  
   
     Critical announcements will be emailed to your UCI Net ID / Login through an EEE managed class mailing list. Please make sure it is set up properly and being forwarded to whichever account you normally read email from. Make sure it is not on your spam list or being filtered as junk mail.  
       
     Many other announcements will be made in class as well.  
       
     An email has been sent to the class mailing list. If you did not receive it, please investigate the problem so that you do not miss required information.  
   
 
 
   Email correspondence to instructors:  
   
     To make sure that the class staff see your email, please include the class code, "[INF 133]" , at the beginning of the subject line. If you do not get a response to the email in 24 hours (except weekends), please resend it or talk to me after class. I recommend also cc'ing the EEE class mailing list on non-personal issues so that the entire class benefits from the discussion.  
   
 
 
   Late Penalty 
   
     Generally speaking the late penalty is 1% per hour after the due date. 
       
     Due dates are specified with a date and time in local time.  
       
     For example, if an assignment's due date is 11:59pm on Monday night and it is turned in on 11:59pm Tuesday night it is  24 hours late will be result in a 24% penalty.  
   
    
 
 
   Sick Policy  
   
     If you find that you are unable to make it to a scheduled event (class, exam, presentation, etc.) due to sickness, please get some documentation from a health care provider to assist us in maintaining fairness to the other students in the class. In the absence of such documentation, please contact the staff as soon as you realize that you are going to miss a scheduled  event. Generally sicknesses will be treated on a case by case basis. We will accommodate you as best as we can depending on the circumstances.  
   
    
 
 
   Add/Drop:  
   
     Electronic Add/Drop only. Standard University time lines apply.  
       
     I choose to not waive prerequisites. 
       
     As a result of UC wide budget cuts, the class size has  been increased and the funding for a teaching assistant funding has been dropped so the class size limit will also be respected.   
   
 
 
   Incompletes: 
   
     I will only offer an incomplete grade to a student who, through some unforeseen emergency, is unable to complete the requirements of the course.  
   
 
 
    Academic honesty:  
   
      Please familiarize yourself with the latest UCI academic honesty policy:  http://www.editor.uci.edu/catalogue/appx/appx.2.htm .  
       
     In a nutshell - you may never use anyone else's work without clearly acknowledging the source. This includes code you find on the web, text from books, and answers from friends. If an assignment requires you to do the work yourself, then acknowledging the source of an answer does not fulfill the requirements of the assignment. 
       
     Plagiarism is any work that you use that you did not create and do not credit. The ACM publishes a more detailed definition  here . If you plagiarize another work without crediting the source, you will receive a failing grade for  the entire course </strong>at the discretion of the instructor.  
       
     This has happened in my courses before, it has happened in conferences that I have chaired and I have sat in conferences in which others have presented my work verbatim. In each of these cases I took the harshest possible recourse available to me at the time. Our global academic system relies on properly creditting  sources for everything to function.  I have kicked students out of UCI for cheating in my courses. 
       
     It takes 2 seconds to cite your source. If you want to be intellectually lazy, take a different course.  
   
 
 
   Web Page, Readings, and Assignments: 
   
      The web page for the class is subject to update. Check it frequently and be sure to refresh / reload the Web pages when you browse them. 
       
     Please follow the assignments exactly. If you need clarification, ask before the assignment is due.  
   
 
  Students with Disabilities or Special Needs:   Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation based on the impact of a disability, religious observance (or anything else) should contact me privately to discuss his or her specific needs. If appropriate, contact the Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to better ensure that such accommodations are implemented in a timely fashion. 
 

</body> 