 Trimming the Fat<body>
  
 
    I'd have written you a shorter letter, but
I didn't have the time.   
 
 --Thomas Jefferson, quoting Blaise Pascal  
  
  In composing, as a general rule, run your pen
through every other word you have written;
 
you have no idea what vigor it will give your style.   
 
 --Sydney Smith  
  
  Vigorous writing is concise.  A sentence should
contain no unnecessary words, a paragraph no unnecessary sentences, for
the same reason that a drawing should have no unnecessary lines and a machine
no unnecessary parts.  This requires not that the writer make all his sentences
short or that he avoid all detail and treat his subjects only in outline,
but that every word tell.   
 
 --William Strunk, Jr.  
 
 Computer scientists appreciate efficiency.
We prefer to complete a task in fewer lines of code or less storage space
(so long as correctness and clarity don't suffer).  Usually this optimization
requires further thought and effort, beyond our initial working version
of a program.   
 
 So it is with writing.  We all disdain wordiness,
but it takes an author time and effort to pare prose down to its elegant,
efficient essence.  
 
  This assignment:   Find a passage of
nonfiction prose writing approximately five pages (1500 words) long, and
revise it to maintain the same content in three pages (900 words).  Carry
this out at two levels:  Pare down the verbosity by rewriting individual
sentences and phrases (e.g., substitute "many" for "a number
of") and remove any content that isn't strictly necessary to the
author's message (this will require you to consider the author's
audience and what they really do--and don't--need to know).  
 
 Turn in three things:  (a) a copy of the original
passage (a photocopy is fine), (b) another copy of the original passage
marked with your revisions, and (c) a clean copy of your final, shortened
revision.  
 
 For a bit of extra credit, you may shorten
the same passage still more by substituting appropriate diagrams, mathematical
formulas, or itemized lists for the equivalent prose, and turning in that
still-smaller version as well.  But your original 40% reduction from five
pages to three should be done in prose alone.  
 
  Further guidelines :  Refer to the course
reference sheet for other advice and requirements.  It's a good idea
to look over that sheet before every assignment.  
 </body> 