 ICS/CSE 23 Winter 2010  Syllabus<body>
 Syllabus 
 ICS/CSE 23 
 Winter 2010 


  
 Course Summary 
  This course focuses on implementation and mathematical analysis of
fundamental data structures and algorithms.
It also covers storage allocation and memory management techniques.
    
 Prerequisites 

  ICS 22/ CSE22 with a grade of C or better or Engineering EECS40;
Mathematics 6A or ICS 6A.
  Only one course from ICS 23/CSE23 and ICS H23 may be taken for credit.
     Instructor  

Prof. Sandy Irani  
Office: DBH 4042  
Office Hours: W 2:00PM-2:50PM, F 9:00AM-9:50AM 
Email:   last name at ics dot uci dot edu  

   Teaching Assistant  

Shengyue Ji 
Office: TBA  
Office Hours: TBA  
Email:   first name at  uci dot edu  

 Meeting Places and Times 
 
Lecture will be held MWF 10:00-10:50 in ICS 174.
You are responsible for anything said in class, including
class announcements. If you have to miss lecture for any
reason, please ask one of your classmates to fill you
in on what you missed.
 
 
There are two lab sections for this class. Each lab section has
three scheduled hours in the lab.
During these times, you have a guaranteed seat in  the lab.
Note, however, you only have priority over
other students if you are working on class work (i.e. not
playing games).
Shenhyue will be available in the lab during these times
to answer questions.
This is an ideal opportunity to get some help with your
lab homework in front of a computer.
 

 
There are several department labs which you can use
for working on your lab assignments.
Information about the locations and hours of the
labs can be found at
 
http://www.ics.uci.edu/~lab  .
Keep in mind that some of these labs may be reserved for other
classes during the day, so you may not have first priority
to these machines at all times.
It is possible that the labs will be
very crowded on the day an assignment is due.
It is your responsibility to take this into account
as I can not accept
crowded labs as an excuse for late lab assigments.
 


 Obtaining Assistance 
The best way to get your questions answered is by coming
to lecture, office hours or lab and asking them there.
In general,
if I'm not busy with something else, I am happy to answer
short questions while I am in my office, so feel free to
stop by during other times in the week.

 
All email with questions about course material should be sent to the
following email address:
 ics23-questions@ics.uci.edu .
This is an alias for the instructor and the TA.  It ensures
that we both see your message and the response.  It also gives you better
turnaround time.
  Please also include the following information:
   The string "ICS 23:" at the beginning of the subject line
   Your name
   Your student number
   
If you are experiencing difficulties in the lab with the
equipment, let the lab attendant know.
If they can not solve the problem, they will contact
support.

  Course Announcements 
  Course announcements will be sent via email to all students enrolled
in the class, at their official UCI email address.
  
 Click here  for the
archive of these messages.
   Assignments 

 
  Lab assignments  
will be due every two weeks at Friday 5PM.
Please see the  
Lab Manual   for instructions on handing in assignments
and policies on late assignments.
 


 
  Weekly quizes:  
I will give a very short weekly quiz at the beginning of class every
Monday. Since we have two Monday holidays, we will make up those
quizes on the preceding Friday. Here are a list of quiz days:

      
Monday
 
 
January 11
 
   
Friday
 
 
January 15
 
   
Monday
 
 
January 25
 
   
Monday
 
 
February 1
 
   
Monday
 
 
February 8
 
   
Friday
 
 
February 12
 
   
Monday
 
 
February 22
 
   
Monday
 
 
March 1
 
   
Monday
 
 
March 8
 
   



The quizes will last approximately 10 minutes and will be given out
at the beginning of lecture. They will cover material from the preceding week.
On the two occasions that quizes are given Friday, they will cover material
from lectures on Monday and Wednesday.
In determining your course score, I will drop the lowest two quiz scores.
However, these dropped scores are intended to cover any missed quizes
for whatever reason you need to miss a quiz. This includes any medical
problems, personal issues or school-related events.


 
I will grade the quizes and Shenhyue will grade the lab assignments.
If you have questions regarding grading, please see the person who
graded that particular item.
 




 Text 

 
We have one required text for this course.
   
  Data Structures and Algorithms in Java, 4th. edition. , by
Michael Goodrich and Roberto Tamassia.
 
 
You may also find it useful to purchase a Java reference book
if you do not already have one. Different styles suit different
people, so I will leave it up to you to select your own.
 Course Structure 

The grading criteria for the course is:
 
Attendance 5% 
Lab assignments 40% 
Quizes 30% 
Final 25%   Missed Final Exam Policy 
   If you miss the final exam and do not have a valid reason, you will receive
a score of 0 on the exam.
   The following policy applies if you miss the final exam for a valid reason.
  
There are only two classes of valid reasons for missing the final exam:
    An unforeseeable emergency, such as a medical emergency.
In such cases I will ask for documentation.
   An absence from an exam due to a foreseeable circumstance
that I have approved in advance.
    
A work conflict is NOT a valid reason for missing the final exam.
The examination times
are announced at the beginning of the quarter, so there is plenty of
time to plan your work schedule.
   If you wait until after the exam to get a foreseeable excuse approved,
and it is not approved,
you will receive a grade of zero (0) on the exam.
   If I accept your reason for missing the final exam, at my option I may
either (1) give you a makeup exam or (2) assign your grade on the basis
of the remaining course work that you did not miss.
   If I give a makeup exam, I may give it less weight
than announced on the course web page.
     Academic Dishonesty 

 As ICS 23 students, you are expected to know and follow the
academic dishonesty policies of both the ICS School and the
University as a whole.  Please take a few minutes to read the
policies, which can be found at
 this link . 

 All of your lab work is expected to be completed  solely by you .  Group work and/or sharing of code between students is not permitted.  Note that "high-level discussion of course material for better understanding" is permitted and encouraged, but when it comes time to sit down and write code, that is expected to be done by you and you alone.  All submissions are compared to one another using an automated plagiarism detection system.  This system is extraordinarily good at finding similarities between submissions, even when there are superficial differences.  (Note that we also compare your submissions to those submitted during previous quarters whenever one of these assignments was given during a previous quarter, so it is an exceedingly bad idea to turn in, or even refer to, code written by a friend of yours who took the course already.) 

 Since all of your work is expected to be completed solely by you, you will be held responsible even if you plagiarize only a small portion of someone else's project. 

 Academic dishonesty is a two-way street.  Providing your code to other students for them to turn in as their own is not permitted anymore than turning in someone else's code.  Resist the temptation to give code to your friends "for reference."  Based on my experience, I can say that your "friends" may very well betray you and turn it in, anyway. 

 Violators of academic dishonesty policies are subject to the
penalties described in the ICS School's policy.  They are also subject to an immediate course grade of F, and you will not be allowed to drop the course to avoid the grade.  Also be aware that a single documented case of academic dishonesty may preclude you from switching into the ICS major, registering for the ICS minor, joining the ICS Honors Program, and graduating from ICS with honors. 


 </body> 