 Rex Chen - UC Irvine - Research Projects<body>

 
   
     
           
       Projects 
     
        Home     Publications     Projects     Experiences     Services     Teaching     Personal   
    	 Dissertation Work - Broadcasting in Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks (VANET)  
     
       From 05/2008 to 12/2010 (with Co-Advisors  Professor Amelia Regan  and Professor  Wen-Long Jin ):  
       I study vehicular ad hoc network (VANET), a specific type of mobile ad hoc network (MANET) with unique and distinctive differences from a general MANET. In VANET, a vehicle represents a network node, and its network topology is constrained by the underlying transportation system in which it operates (for example, highway and arterial roads) which can change fast and frequently. Understanding of and incorporation of techniques in communication networks and traffic systems are important to improve the stability, reliability, and performance of VANET.  
       An important piece of my dissertation work builds upon this framework to borrow ideas from traffic flow theory and to fine-tune and optimize VANET which will likely be based on IEEE 802.11p and IEEE 1609, the standard for data exchange between high-speed vehicles and between vehicles and the roadside infrastructure in the licensed  5.9 Ghz Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) band. Further, VANET is governed by the application requirements. In the near and mid-term future, these will primarily be safety-oriented applications. I have surveyed the literature in-depth on broadcast communication for vehicular safety applications. I use ns-2 network simulator to evaluate the broadcast communication and network security system design and analyze performance measures for different traffic patterns.
 The work presents methods to improve reliability for broadcasting by having a better understanding on the mobility behaviors and traffic characteristics of the VANET.   
	  	  
            
         
     Anonymous Routing in MANETs  
     
       From 09/2005 to 09/2007 (with Professor  Li-Chun Bao ): 
       This is a collabortive work where I investigate the development of an anonymous routing protocol called On-Demand Anonymous Routing (ODAR) which seeks to preserve topology and location privacy in ad hoc networks. ODAR leverages the novel use of Bloom filters to enable anonymity of the nodes, links, and source-routing paths. Using the J-Sim network simulator, the performance results indicate that ODAR had comparable control overhead with AODV. The success of this work, its quality and novelty was well received in the research community and subsequently invited later on for a book chapter on Security in Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks, published in 2009.  
     
     Evaluating the BitTorrent Peer-to-Peer Network  
     
       From 04/2006 to 12/2006 (with Professor  Xiaowei Yang , while at UCI earlier):  
       This is a collaborative work and its motivation initially came from a graduate level course project in advanced computer networks. P2P networks is the major contributor of network traffic on the Internet and this research evaluates the popular BitTorrent P2P system.  In particular, we look at the incentive mechanism (tic-for-tac) and investigate its vulnerabilities in the file exchange by free-riding the system with a large view of the network.  The project involves modifying BitTorrent and deploying the system onto hundreds of PlanetLab overlay nodes around the world. This work received more than 60 citations according to Google Scholar and provided motivation for future networking researchers and practitioners on designing robust and incentive-based P2P systems.             
     
   
 
</body> 