 US 197B UTeach Resources<body>
 US 197B • UTeach Theory and Practice • David G. Kay • UC Irvine 
 Supplementary Resources on Course Topics 
   

  The  US 197B Syllabus from Winter 2015 , built using the EEE web page building tools. How is this better than  our syllabus this quarter , and vice versa? 
         
 Berkeley Center for Teaching and Learning :
Check out the Teaching Resources tab. Great insight on how to think about learning objectives, components of a syllabus, incorporating technology in your classroom, and more! Don't forget to look at the teaching guide for TAs and faculty.
         
        
         
             UCLA - Undergraduate Student Initiated Education (USIE) : See UCLA's UTeach-equivalent program.
         
        
         
	 Berkeley - DeCal :
	Take a look at the first undergraduate program that placed students as instructors.
         
        
         
             UCI Library Course Reserves :
            Have a book or two that you want available to your students? This link will take you to libraries' policies about reserving books for your seminar.
         
        
         
	 UCI Teaching, Learning, and Technology Center : Don't forget to check out UCI's own center for teaching strategies.
         
        
         
         A "Teacher's Dozen" :
            A really wonderful article on what you should focus on as you begin to take on your role as an instructor.
         
        
         
             Amy Cuddy's research on power poses :
		Amy's research includes a discussion of hormonal changes and how to improve your interviews and teaching.
         
        
         
             Alexandra Lossada's fantastic advice :
        Alexandra was the 2012-13 UTeach student coordinator; she spent some time in Japan teaching English and is now in graduate school at Johns Hopkins. 
        
         
                     Advice from Umer Waris - another two-time UTeacher :
            "Remember that your passion is what has driven you to this point, and it is what makes you capable of teaching this course. You dont have to know everything regarding your subject but you should be the most passionate about it. Through your enthusiasm, others will be inspired and you will find creative solutions to any questions or confusions that arise. Try to rehearse your presentation before class as that will help ensure that you cover everything in the most convincing manner. Think of fun group exercises and different means to present the material to create a fun learning environment. Continue to believe in yourself and you will do great!"         
        
 
 </body> 