 
	Opportunities – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	 			
					 
				 Opportunities  				
				 
						 We always have a range of opportunities to become involved in our laboratory and projects. We welcome visitors as well as collaborations with other institutions, and are happy to talk to anyone about how they can contribute. We particularly have a long history of working with M.S. and B.S. students, many of whom have made critical contributions to our projects. 
 The following represents some of the ideas we plan to pursue in the near future. Please feel free to contact us, whether pertaining to these ideas or a new project or idea that you have in mind. 
 Crowd Debugging 
  How to aggregate responses from the crowd in order to predict the location of software faults? 
 Where and when to ask questions? 
  Project page  
    
 CrowdDesign 
  Front end web development for a crowdsourcing tool. 
 Crowdsourcing peer review for sketches. 
  Project page  
    
 Calico 
  Design a client for Android and/or iOS devices 
 Build support for refining scraps into UML, Entity Relationship, or other diagrammatic notations 
 Explore sketching for domains other than software 
 Move it to a cloud-based infrastructure 
  Project page  
    
   
   
										 
                
                

			
		
	

			 
				
				  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 