 Southern California SPIN<body> 

 
 
  

  Southern California 
 
Software Process Improvement Network (SPIN) 

  
 
December 1999
  
The Southern California SPIN is now being sponsored by California State
University, Long Beach. Please bookmark the new 
  Southern California SPIN web 
page .
  
For more information, send email to
 
spin@uces.csulb.edu .
  

 
October 1999
  
The Southern California SPIN is seeking a new sponsor/host. 
 Details 
are available here. 

  

The Southern California SPIN is a community of software practitioners and
researchers that gathers monthly to investigate and discuss topics of interest
in the area of Software Process. 


  Mission Statement  
 
The Southern California SPIN is a leadership forum for the free and 
open exchange of software process improvement experiences and practical ideas.
We promote achieving higher levels of process maturity,
software quality and mutual respect.  Our goal is to enhance skills
and support technology transition through an active
program of networking, publications, recognition of
excellence, and mutual support.
 

 

   SPIN Meetings  
SPIN meetings are held on the UC Irvine campus from 9:00 am to 12 noon on the 
last Friday of every month (except holidays) and have an average attendance of
60. 

 

Each meeting addresses a specific topic; previous topics have included 
process definition, the Capability Maturity Model, software process 
technology, metrics, software testing, risk management, and ISO 9000.
A typical meeting format consists of presentations by practitioners and experts
on a topic followed by discussion. 

  

Special formats, such as interactive workshops and "group thinks" have
generated high interest and enhanced the learning experience. The 
Southern California SPIN experimented with a very unique format: a 
dramatic reading (or reader's theatre).   The Case of the Killer 
Robot , based on a series of articles by Richard Epstein, was dramatized
for the SPIN and received rave reviews.
  

SPIN attendees find community building and 
networking invaluable added benefits.

  

   Meeting Flyers  
Flyers providing details on the meeting topic as well as logistical
information are circulated approximately two weeks prior to the meeting. 
 
Meeting flyers are also available on the 
 IRUS schedule of
events. 

   IRUS Mailing Lists 
To receive flyers directly, you can be added to the 
 
IRUS electronic or postal mailing lists. 
 
  SPIN Steering Committee  
 
SPIN meetings are planned and organized by the SPIN Steering Committee, which 
meets monthly immediately after the SPIN meetings. 
The SPIN Steering Committee consists of volunteers who meet
immediately after the SPIN meeting to choose meeting topics, plan future 
meetings, discuss areas of concern, and provide strategic direction.
  
The Steering Committee has developed a SPIN
  Charter  which 
includes various roles to be fulfilled by the committee members. An
 
Election Procedure  defines the nomination and voting procedure.

  
The Steering Committee has also developed a 
 
Meeting Coordinator's Responsibilities and Timetable  and set of
 
Speaker Guidelines  to assist the meeting coordinators and speakers.

  

   Activities  
To mark it's fifth anniversay, the Southern California SPIN was pleased 
to sponsor a two-day regional Conference on Software Process Improvement 
(CoSPI), with   Practice and Experience  as its theme, in 
January, 1997. CoSPI featured a Keynote presentation by Terry
Snyder, Hughes Aircraft Company, a plenary presentation by Watts Humphrey, 
SEI, 10 contributed presentations, informal Birds-of-a-feather meetings, and a
reception on the first day. The second day featured 4 tutorials. 

 

The SPIN has fostered various activities including 

provision of email communications,
and interaction and coordination with the 
 
Los Angeles SPIN  
and the 
 
Software Engineering 
Institute (SEI) .
  
The Southern California SPIN was pleased to co-sponsored the 
5th SEPG National Meeting (the predecessor to the annual SEPG Conference)
with the SEI.

  

  
 Back to the IRUS home page 

   
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science  
University of California, Irvine  CA 92697-3425   
</body> 