 Western Digital Tour &amp; Luncheon with Female Engineers – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         
         
             

                            
                 Western Digital Tour &amp; Luncheon with Female Engineers 
                          
                                
                                         

            
               Tour    by admin 

            
                        on 05/05/2013 

                                
                                
                                                                                                          « prev        1     2     3        next »    (10 Photos)  
 Friday, May 3rd, WICS went to Western Digital for a luncheon with their female engineers and a tour of their work space. 14 female students were able to attend and have the opportunity to interact with and learn from many of Western Digital’s experienced female engineers. After a luncheon with them, the WICS members were taken on a tour to see the engineers at work! The discussions with the female engineers were extremely insightful and including the tour, the whole experience allowed the members to see what it was like to work at Western Digital as a female and have a general idea of what employers looked for in a good candidate. Everyone’s reviews on this tour were extremely positive and WICS plans on going again! 
   Share this:        Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)        
 
	  Related  
 
                                  

                             
         
     

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 

	</body> 