 Python Download and Installation Instructions<body>
 
 Python Download and Installation Instructions 
 
  
  

You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can
 refer to them while downloading and installing Python.
Or, just keep this document in your browser.
You should read each step completely before performing the action that it
 describes.
  
This document shows downloading and installing Python 3.4.1 on Mac OS X 10.6
  and  later.
You should download and install the latest Python.  

   Python: Version 3.4.1 
 

The Python download requires about 18 MB of disk space; keep it on your machine,
 in case you need to re-install Python.
When installed, Python requires about an additional 90 MB of disk space.
  
  Downloading 
  
  Click
     
     Python Download .
    
   The following page will appear in your browser.
     
      

   Click the  Download Python 3.4.1  button.
    
   An  Opening python-3.4.1-macosx10.6.dmg  pop-up window will appear.
     
      
   Click  Save File .
     
   The file named  python-3.4.1-macosx10.6.dmg  should start downloading
     in your standard download folder
     (mine was stored in  Machintosh HD/Users/pattis/Downloads ).
   This file is about 24 MB so it might take a while to download fully if you
     are on a slow internet connection (it took me about 10 seconds over a
     cable modem).
     
   The file should appear as
     
      
   Move this file to a more permanent location, so that you can install Python
     (and reinstall it later, if necessary).
 
   Start the  Installing  instructions directly below.
   

   Installing 
  Double-click the icon labeling the file  python-3.4.1-macosx10.6.dmg .
    
   A file folder named  Python 3.4.1  containing the  Python.mpkg 
      file will appear. 
     
      

   Control-click on the  Python.mpkg  file and select  open .
    
   If the following pop-up window appears
     
      
   enter you password and click  Install Python 
     
   An  Install Python  pop-up window will appear.
     
      
   Click  Continue  button.
    
   A new  Install Python  pop-up window will appear.
     
      

  
   Click the  Continue  button.
    

   A new  Install Python  pop-up window will appear.
     
      

  
   Click the  Continue  button.
    
   A new pop-up window asking you to agree to the license terms will appear.
     
      

  
   Click  Agree .
    
   A new  Install Python  pop-up window will appear.
     
      
   The Python Interpreter and all its libraries occupy about 89 Mb.
     
   By default Python will be installed in your  Hard Disk Drive  
    Machintosh HD/Applications/Python3.4 .
   Unless you have a good reason to use another directory, use this one.

  
  
   Click  Install .
    
   The previous pop-window will reappear, displaying the message 
           Install Python 3.4.1   
           Please wait while the Installer installs
          Python 3.4.1. This may take 
          several minutes. 
     
   During installation, it will show the various operations it is
     performing and a progress bar for each one.
     
   Eventually a new  Install Python  pop-up window will appear.
     
      
   Click the  Close  button.
   
Python should now be installed.
To try to verify installation, navigate to the directory
   Machintosh HD/Applications/Python3.4 
  (or to whatever directory on which you installed Python)
  double-click the icon/file  IDLE .
The following pop-up window will appear.
     
      
A pop-up window with the title  *Python 3.4.1 Shell*  appears, and inside
 the window on the first line is the text  Python 3.4.1 ... .
  
Click the red (terminate) icon to terminate this pop-up window.
  
You should keep the file  python-3.4.1-macosx10.6.dmg  somewhere on your
  computer in case you need to reinstall Python (not likely necessary).
  
You may now follow the instructions to download and install Java (it is already
  installed on most Macs; to update Java on your Mac, go to
   
  Java SE Development Kit 7 Downloads ,  Accept  the license agreement,
  and then download  dk-7u72-macosx-x64.dmg  and install it)
  and then download/install the Eclipse IDE (for Python).
  
  </body> 