 WICS - Women in Information and Computer Sciences - 10/11<body>  

   

 
     HOME  |  ABOUT WICS  | NCWIT  |  OFFICERS  |  NEWS  |   UPCOMING EVENTS   |  PAST EVENTS   |  JOBS  |  PHOTOS  |  CONTACT  |  LINKS   
   



     WICS 2010/2011 - Past Events        Week Zero        Anteater Involvement Fair And Ice Cream!   
        
Come join us at the Dean's Welcome Event and Anteater Involvement Fair 
to learn and support WICS on Monday, September 20th!
We'll be at Booth #37 from 11:00am- 3:00pm with the ICS Student Council.
 Please stop by!

And don't forget on Thursday, September 23rd, we'll be teaming up with 
ICS Student Council for the Ice Cream Social. The first 100 people get 
FREE Ice Cream!

 
    Week Two        Fashion Show and Infosession with Raytheon   
        
Tuesday, October 5th, we'll be hosting Raytheon Info Session. Come join 
us to learn about the company and it's many opportunities!
   
Saturday, October 9th, we'll be volunteering and working with Anteaters 
Autoimunity Association(AAA) for Fashion for Lupus. Details to be 
announced, be sure to check back soon!

 
    Week Three        Engineer's Panel by Google   
        
Do you want to know what it would be like to work for Google? Come join 
us on October 13th from 2:30pm- 5:00pm to learn more about our roles as 
engineers in the workplace!

 
    Week Four        Boeing Info Session   
        
Enjoy aerospace technology? The Boeing Company has invited us to learn 
more about their work and opportunities. Drop in on Tuesday, October 
19th, to learn more about them!

 
    Week Five        Infosession with  Deloitte Consulting   
        
Tuesday, Oct 26th, Deloitte Consulting will be discussing their work in 
the field. Come join us to learn about their ideas and opportunities. 
And resume tips too!
 
    Week Six        Blizzard Entertainment Tour    
        
Ever wonder what the inside of a famous video game company is like? Join
 WICS and The Video Game Developers Club (VGDC) on a campus tour of 
BLIZZARD ENTERTAINMENT on November 2nd. Don't miss it!

 
    Week Seven        Western Digital Info Session    
        
Join us on November 9th to learn more about Western Digital's 
involvement in the corporate world and their opportunities for you!

 
    Week Eight        Beckman Coulter Event with SWE    
        
WICS and The Society of Women Engineers(SWE) are having an event with Beckman Coulter! Come by to see what it's all about!
 
   WICS 2009/2010 - Past Events  
 
   Week Two        Biweekly Meeting   
        Come join us for the first WICS meeting of the winter quarter on
Wednesday, January 13th at 6:30pm in CS 432. We will be playing Pictionary, technology style!
It will be a lot of fun and refreshments will be served. 
  


     Week Four        Lollicup Fundraiser!   
        WICS will be selling Lollicup on Ring Road, near Aldrich Hall, on 1/28
from 11-3pm. Come support us by buying a drink or just helping us out.
Tell all your friends!
 
  
             Biweekly Meeting   
        Come to our next member meeting this Wednesday 1/27 
at 6:30pm in CS 432. We will be having a technical interviewing 
workshop. Learn about the dos and don'ts in an interview and questions 
you should expect.
 
  


     Week Five        Lollicup Fundraiser!   
        WICS will be selling Lollicup on Ring Road, near Aldrich Hall, on 1/28
from 11-3pm. Come support us by buying a drink or just helping us out.
Tell all your friends!
 
  


     Week Six        Biweekly Meeting   
        
Come to our next member meeting this Wednesday 2/10 at 6:30pm in CS 432.
We will be demonstrating how to use the Pico boards for our Outreach Event
later this month on the 25th. Volunteers will be very much appreciated for
this event.
 
  

     Week Eight        BCBG Info Session   
        BCBG will be coming to speak about the various IT opportunities
at their organization at our next member meeting. Come learn about
their company and internship program. The event will be on
February 24th at 6:30pm in CS 432.
 
  

     Pegasus High Outreach Event   
        WICS is having its annual Outreach Event at Pegasus High in Huntington
Beach. The event will be on February 25th from 6:00p to 8:30p. If you are
interested in helping us teach young girls about Pico boards, computer
programming, and circuit boards, please email us back and indicate if you
will be needing a ride.
 
  
  

    WICS 2007/2008 - Past Events 
Winter '08 
 
                Week Five        WICS Election  
  Date: Thursday, May 1st, 2008 
  Time: 6:30pm-8:00pm 
  Place: CS 432  
        Elections will be held THIS THURSDAY. Come vote and make a difference! See you there.
  

             Week Three        WICS Table Tennis  
  Date: Thursday, January 17th, 2008 
  Time: 6:30pm-7:30pm 
  Place: ARC  
        WICS is hosting a Table Tennis event with the Mentors &amp; Mentees!
Come catch up with your mentor/mentee and WICS! We're excited to see you for a new quarter and new year!  
  Bring your mentor and mentee! Old and new members welcome! Can't wait to see you there!  
            Week Four        WICS Behavioral and Technical Interview Workshop  
  Date: Thursday, January 31st, 2008 
  Time: 6:30pm-8:00pm 
  Place: CS 432 
        Western Digital will be informing students 
on what to expect in a behavioral or technical interview and how to 
better prepare themselves for an interview of this kind.  
   Free food provided!  
             Week Five        WICS Interview Etiquette &amp; Resume Skills  
  Date: Thursday, February 7th, 2008 
  Time: 6:30pm-8:00pm 
  Place: CS 432  
        Andrea Knies from the Career Center will be offering tips on how to create a winning resume and behave during interviews.  
  Everyone's invited...can't wait to see you there!  
            Week Six        WICS Mock Technical Interview  
  Date: Wednesday, February 13th, 2008 
  Time: 5:00pm-8:00pm 
  Place: Career Center 
        Sign-up for Individual Interview Times: WICS 
presents our annual "Mock Technical Interview".  You've had a chance to 
see the companies during the Career Fair, now come and learn how to 
design a winning resume and gain invaluable interview skills.  
Raytheon 
Hitachi Consulting 
Capital Group 
Avanade 
Sony Pictures Entertainment 
First American Core Logic    There's no better way to learn how to land a 
company internship than to have actual company representatives interview
 and give you feedback, giving you the opportunity to ask the questions 
and receive the feedback you need to prepare for your future interviews.  
  Get your resume critiqued by Hitachi Consulting!
 Learn how to make your resume stronger and how to make it stand out 
from the crowd.  
   Sign-ups available at the Career Center!</strong>
 There is a $5 refundable deposit per interview or resume critique.  You
 must have this deposit to sign up! Don't miss this amazing opportunity:
 space is limited, so sign up soon! 
        
 

   WICS 2008/2009 - Past Events 
Fall '08 
  

    Week Ten        Gears of War 2 Launch Event/Tournament  
  Date: Thursday, December 4th, 2008 
  Time: 6:30pm-8:30pm 
  Place: ET 202  To find the room select the appropriate map:  Map to the building  or  Directions to the UCI Campus 
 
        Are you interested in the gaming industry? Do you enjoy gaming? Microsoft is
having a launch event for their game "Gears of War 2."
Come learn about Microsoft XNA, the Imagine Cup XNA Challenge and play the
newly released Gears of War 2 video game.

Some food and drinks will be provided.  
  Assisted by WICS   
       Week Eight        Blizzard Info Session  
  Date: Thursday, November 20th, 2008 
  Time: 6:30pm-8:30pm 
  Place: PSCB 120
    
        Come learn about programming opportunities 
at Blizzard-including duties and what it's like to be in the field. 
Blizzard will be collecting resumes at this event.
  
       Week Five        Avanade Technology Showcase  
  Date: Thursday, October 30th, 2008 
  Time: 6:30pm-8:00pm 
  Place: CS 432
    
        Microsoft Silverlight 2
- Come see what all the excitement is about! Avanade will demonstrate 
how to build innovative web applications using Visual Studio 2008 and 
Microsoft Silverlight.

Microsoft Expression Blend 2
- Learn how to use Microsoft's new UI deisgn tool to create eye popping 
applications for the web and for the desktop.

PLUS:
- food drink and PRIZES!
- 8 GB iPod Nano
- 2 GB USB Drives
- Silverlight 2.0 books

Don't miss out on this event!  
       Week Four        Rockwell Collins Info Session  
  Date: Thursday, October 23rd, 2008 
  Time: 6:30pm-8:00pm 
  Place: CS 432
    
      
         Listen to an introduction about Rockwell 
Collins presented by one of their government system's department 
managers. Chat with them after and submit your resumes. Also, Rockwell 
Collins will be giving out a FREE IPOD so come out!

Some information about Rockwell Collins:
Rockwell Collins is an avionics and defense company that operates in 27 
countries. Engineering opportunities are offered in both Government and 
Commercial Systems.

Rockwell Collins' government systems department supply defense 
communications and electronic solutions to the US Department of Defense,
 foreign militaries, and manufacturers of military aircrafts and 
helicopters.

Some of the positions offered at Rockwell Collins include Hardware, 
Software, and Systems Engineering.

For more information in career opportunities visit
www.rockwellcollins.com/careers  

      Week Three        Acquity Group  
  Date: Wednesday, October 15th, 2008 
  Time: 6:30pm-7:30pm 
  Place: DBH 5011
    
        Ever wonder what consulting is? How does it 
differ from Industry? What are the pros and cons? Learn about these and 
other cool facts by attending our presentation.   
       Week Two        Deloitte &amp; Touche LLP's  
  Date: Thursday, October 9th, 2008 
  Time: 6:30pm-7:30pm  
        Deloitte &amp; Touche LLP's ("Deloitte &amp;
 Touche's") Audit and Enterprise Risk Services business has a risk-based
 approach, experienced professionals, comprehensive methodologies, and 
technical resources. Deloitte &amp; Touche's services combine competency
 and experience in the areas of financial reporting, risk management, 
and compliance.  
       Week One        WICS Social  
  Date: Thursday, October 2nd, 2008 
  Time: 6:30pm-7:30pm  
        Get to know  your WICS officers one on one while enjoying food and drinks.   
      WICS 2007/2008 - Past Events 
Fall '07  
 
     
         Welcome Week         WICS Social  
  Date: Thursday, September 27th, 2007 
  Time: 6:30pm-7:30pm 
  Location: CS 432 
        Come meet the officers and members of WICS! 
We'll be meeting in CS 432 for an introduction, and then heading around 
the UCI campus for a useful tour. We'll end with dinner at the UTC. It's
 a good chance to get to know the club and meet people in your classes 
for the quarter!  
         
         Week One        Meet WICS   
  Date: Thursday, October 4th, 2007 
  Time: 6:30pm-7:30pm 
  Location: CS 432  
         The WICS Social introduced you to the 
officers of the club and some new members and friends, so come join us 
to learn how you can participate this year! Learn about the events that 
we have planned and come suggest events that you'd like to see us do! 
We'll be introducing you to the Mentoring Program, talking about our 
Google Campus Tour, and desgining commitees that you'd like to be a part
 of in Winter Quarter!  
          We'll be passing out surveys for the Mentoring Program so, if you'd to participate, make sure to come!    
          FREE pizza and drinks will be provided!  
         
         Week Two         WICS Mentoring Program  
  Date: Thursday, October 11th, 2007 
  Time: 6:30pm-7:30pm 
  Location: CS 432  
         Wondering how to be successful in your
 ICS classes? Ever wonder what programming languages you should learn, 
what research opportunities you should pursue, and how your 
upperclassman have managed with the ICS majors?  
          Come to our Mentoring Program and get assigned to an upperclassman who can help guide you to success!   
         
         Week Three        Google Campus Tour at Google Irvine  
  Date:  Tuesday , October 16th, 2007 
  Time: 11:30am - 2:30pm 
  Location: Google Irvine; 
  Meet at the flagpoles by Admin for transportation 
         Have you ever wanted to get a glimpse 
inside of one of the most successful technology companies? Have you ever
 been interested in seeing one of the famous Google campuses and 
learning about the different jobs available for CS in Google?  
          WICS is giving you that chance! Come 
join us for an event at the Google Irvine campus that includes a guided 
tour, LUNCH, and a Question and Answer section with Google workers!  
          Either attend our Mentoring Program event or e-mail the  webmaster  to RSVP.  Transportation can be arranged, if needed.   Please put "Google Irvine" in the title, and specify in the e-mail if you'll be needing transportation.   
          We hope to see you there!   
        
 
 
 
 
 



 
    
  

 
</body> 