 Pierre Baldi :: University of California, Irvine<body>
		   
		     Pierre Baldi   
			University of California in Irvine ( UCI ) 
			School of Information and Computer Sciences ( ICS ) 
			Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics ( IGB )  
			 
		       
						
			 
		   
			
			    Home      Publications      Books      Software      Group      Courses      Tutorials            Other     
			
			 
			
			    
			 
			
     Probabilistic Modeling 
        of Biological Data
              
       
                       
            ICS 284B 
            Pierre Baldi 
             
            
           
            ICS 284B: SPECIAL TOPICS IN INFORMATION AND COMPUTER SCIENCE 
          PROBABILISTIC MODELING OF BIOLOGICAL DATA</strong> 
         
       
      		  
              
            Course -  Prerequisites  -  Textbook  -  Grading  -  Schedule  -  Other </strong> 
                   
          Course Goals and Description          
         
         This is a graduate level course on probabilistic modeling of biological data. The       course covers computational approaches to understanding and predicting the       structure, function, interactions, and evolution of DNA, RNA, proteins, and       related molecules and processes. The emphasis is on providing a unified       Bayesian statistical framework to mine large noisy data sets that are becoming the hallmark of modern biology. The methods taught focus on       developing the structure of the models, on model fitting algorithms (machine       learning), and on the application of the resulting models (data mining). Most applications will revolve around DNA,      RNA, protein sequence, and gene-expression-array data, but other types of  data will      also be considered depending on participants interests. 
         The official catalog description is: 
         ICS 284B: Probabilistic Modeling of Biological Data. A unified Bayesian probabilistic      framework for modeling and mining biological data. Applications range from sequence (DNA,      RNA, proteins) to gene expression data. Graphical models, Markov models, stochastic      grammars, neural networks, structure prediction, gene finding, evolution, DNA arrays single and multiple gene analysis .    
            
           Course  - Prerequisites -  Textbook  -  Grading  -  Schedule  -  Other   
         
          
          Prerequisites
          
         
         A basic course in algorithms (ICS 161 or equivalent) and in molecular biology (Bio Sci 99 or equivalent), or ICS 277A (or equivalent), or consent of instructor. Course assumes ome background in biology, and basic knowledge of probability, statistics, and programming .  
           
            
           Course  -  Prerequisites  - Textbook -  Grading  -  Schedule  -  Other   
         
          
          Textbooks
          
         
         Bioinformatics: the Machine Learning Approach  
          Pierre Baldi and Soren Brunak, Second Edition, 2001, (MIT      Press) 
         DNA Microarrays and Gene Regulation: From Experiments to       Data Analysis and Modeling 
          Pierre Baldi       and G. Wesley Hatfield, 2002, (Cambridge University Press) .    
            
           Course    -  Prerequisites  -  Textbook  - Grading -  Schedule  -  Other   
         
          
          Grading
          
         
         Students will read articles from the literature. Grading will be based on participation in class discussions, presentations, and possibly a final project requiring a computational      analysis of biological data, which will result in a brief (5--10 pages) conference-style      written report. Additional assignments can include homeworks .   
           
            
           Course    -  Prerequisites  -  Textbook  -  Grading  -        Schedule -  Other   
         
          
          Tentative Schedule
          
         
         N.B.: Schedule may change to follow class interest, schedule outside speakers, etc. 
        
        
              
               
                   Week 1</strong>: Introduction to Bioinformatics. Probabilistic Modeling: the Bayesian Statistical Framework.
                
                 
                 
               
                   Week 2</strong>: Graphical Models. Simple Markov models of Biological Sequences (HMMs).
                
                 
                 
               
                   Week 3</strong>: Hidden Markov Models of Biological Sequences.
                
                 
                 
               
                   Week 4:</strong> HMMs, Probabilistic Models of Genes, and Gene Finding Algorithms. Probabilistic Models of Genes and Gene Finding Algorithms.
                
                 
                 
               
                   Week 5</strong>: Probabilistic Models of Evolution and Phylogenetic Trees.Stochastic Grammars and Languages.
                
                 
                 
               
                   Week 6</strong>: Stochastic Context Free Grammars and RNA Secondary Structure. Beyond Context Free Grammars.
                
                 
                 
               
                   Week 7</strong>: Probabilistic Modeling and Neural Networks. Machine Learning Approaches for Protein  Structure Prediction.
                
                 
                 
               
                   Week 8</strong>: Machine Learning Approaches for Other Problems (Signal Peptides, etc). DNA Microarray Data and Gene Regulation
                
                 
                 
               
                   Week 9</strong>: Probabilistic Modeling of DNA MicroArrays: Single-Gene Level. Probabilistic Modeling of DNA MicroArrays: Multiple-Gene Level. Gene and Protein Networks.           Systems Biology.
                
                 
                 
               
                   Week 10</strong>: Project Presentations . 
                
                 
                  
            
           Course    -  Prerequisites  -  Textbook  -  Grading  -  Schedule  - Other  
         
          
          Other
          
         
         
          
           Texts on reserve at the UCI Science Library 
          
         
        
        
              
               
                Bioinformatics: the Machine Learning Approach by Pierre Baldi and Soren Brunak.
                  
                 
                 
               
                DNA Microarrays and Gene Expression by Pierre Baldi           and G. Wesley Hatfield
                  
                 
                 
               
                Biological Sequence Analysis by Richard Durbin et al.
                  
                 
                 
               
                Introduction to Protein Structure by Carl Branden and John            Tooze.
                  
                 
                 
               
                Introduction to Computational Biology by Michael S. Waterman.
                  
                 
                 
               
                Artificial intelligence and molecular biology edited by Lawrence Hunter.
                  
                 
                 
               
                Mathematical methods for DNA sequences edited by Michael S. Waterman.
                  
                 
                  
            
         
          
           Relation to Other Courses 
          
         
         This course is intended to complement the existing ``hands-on'' computer based courses      Biological Sciences 123/223 (Computer Applications in Molecular Biology/Computational      Molecular Biology), which give a very practical introduction to using computer tools in      molecular biology. In contrast, this course emphasizes the development of probabilistic      models and machine learning approaches for the analysis of biological data. This course is      also intended to closely complement the existing ICS course``Representations and      Algorithms for Molecular Biology'' (currently ICS-277 and scheduled to become ICS-277A).      In contrast, this course emphasizes modeling and analysis of biological data using a      probabilistic framework. The probabilistic approach is essential to account for biological      variability brought about by evolutionary tinkering. The course can be viewed as data      mining, machine learning, and probabilistic algorithms, concentrated on biological data      sets, especially sequence data, but also including other data sets, such as gene      expression data, depending on student interest.  
         There is essentially no overlap between this course and ICS 246, as well as ICS 248.      There is a small overlap with ICS 275B and with 283. The overlap with 275B is in the use      of graphical models. Not all the graphical models used in 277B, however, are Bayesian      networks. Furthermore, the Bayesian networks used in 277B are very specialized and come      with their own algorithms (forward-backward, inside outside) etc. There is also a small      overlap with ICS 273 (machine learning) but the approach in 277B is more probabilistic      and, once more, focused exclusively on biological problems. ICS 277B could benefit      students who have taken ICS 275B and/or ICS 273 by deepening their understanding of      graphical model/machine learning concepts and letting them apply systematically to      problems in biology.  
         Finally, ICS 277B complements a course such as 223 (Molecular Biology and Biochemistry)      by focusing on the application of computational methods to the solution of biological      problems.  
         This course is part of the new ICS concentration: Informatics in Biology      and Medicine. 
             
           Course    -  Prerequisites  -  Textbook  -  Grading  -  Schedule  -  Other   
         
       
           
          

  Back to Courses  			 
			   

		   
	 
	
		© 2017 Pierre Baldi |  pfbaldi [at] uci [dot] edu 

	 
	 
	   
	  </body> 