 Celebration of Teaching @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Celebration of Teaching 

 
 

  Students, faculty recognized for outstanding contributions to undergraduate instruction  



 
   
Celebration of Teaching honorees Jed Brubaker, Eric Hennigan and Don Patterson with Dean Hal Stern 



 





 
Three members of the Bren School community were honored at UC Irvine’s  20th Annual Celebration of Teaching . Hosted by the Dean of the Division of Undergraduate Education and the Teaching, Learning &amp; Technology Center (TLTC) since 1993, the Celebration of Teaching event recognizes faculty, lecturers and teaching assistants (TAs) throughout the UCI campus for their outstanding contributions to undergraduate instruction. 
 
 
The 2013 Bren School honorees are:





 
 
  
Jed Brubaker   
Most Promising Future Faculty Member
 
 
 
Jed Brubaker, a Ph.D. student in the Department of Informatics, was selected as one of two most promising future faculty members. The award comes with a one-quarter dissertation fellowship and fee waiver from the Graduate Division dean. Recipients of this award are judged on their excellence in teaching, research and service. 
 
 
Brubaker studies digital identity, social media and human-centered computing with a focus on death on social network sites. His recent projects include a study of social network profiles during the three years after their owners die; a linguistic analysis of online expressions of grief; and an interview-based study exploring the impact of Facebook on how individuals encounter and engage with death.
 
 
His advisor, associate professor Gillian Hayes, says Brubaker’s work has inspired a wide variety of research and design projects addressing the impact of encountering information about people’s deaths through online social networking sites. 
 
 
As for Brubaker’s teaching style, Hayes adds: “Jed’s lectures are dynamic, engaging and extraordinarily popular. He has a way of presenting highly theoretical material in a manner that is engaging for undergraduate students. The students with whom he has worked all speak very highly of him, and many have gone or are applying to graduate school.”



 
 
  
Eric Hennigan  
Pedagogical Fellow
 
 
 
Eric Hennigan, a Ph.D. student in the Department of Computer Science, was honored for his involvement in the Pedagogical Fellows Program. Pedagogical Fellows are a group of productive apprentice scholars who have a keen interest in providing superlative instruction in their roles as TAs. They also plan and lead training for more than 400 fellow UC Irvine TAs each fall. Fellows are selected through a competitive process based on their teaching evaluations, letters of recommendation and demonstrated interest in pedagogy. 
 
 
TLTC associate director Chris O’Neal says this year’s Pedagogical Fellows “are an outstanding group of graduate students, scholars, teachers, university servants — and just an all-around great group of people.”
 
 
Hennigan works in the Secure Systems and Software Lab, where his research involves securing JavaScript, so that browsing the web can be made safer.



 
 
  
Don Patterson  
Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching
 
 
 
Associate professor of informatics Don Patterson was recognized as a Bren School Dean’s honoree for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching.
 
 
Hal Stern, the Ted and Janice Smith Family Foundation Dean, says Patterson is known as a passionate and dedicated teacher. “Don’s students are very enthusiastic about his courses because they receive practical information and they recognize that he cares about their learning,” Stern says. “When asked how Don could improve his teaching, a majority of the students say he can’t. In fact, one asked, ‘How can you be more awesome than awesome?’ ”
 
 
Patterson directs UC Irvine’s Laboratory for Ubiquitous Computing and Interaction. His current research interests focus on context-aware computing and how to make a computer operate appropriately when it leaves the office and moves into the greater world. 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 