 Graduate Student Profiles @ the Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>

 This site will look much better in a browser that supports  web standards , but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device. 
   

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










      Bren school home  &gt;  Graduate  &gt;  Profiles  
    
 Graduate Student Profiles 
 
 




  

                  

                 Alexander Behm 
                Ph.D. in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 John Brock 
                1st-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Ellie Harmon 
                4th-year Ph.D. student in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Sun Young Park 
                4th-year Ph.D. student in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Arjun Satish 
                5th-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Nicole Miya Sylvester 
                2nd-year Ph.D. student in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Tianbing Xu 
                4th-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science  
                

















 


 

       2012-13 Fischer Memorial Fellow 
 


 

        Nicole Miya Sylvester 
                     Nicole Miya Sylvester has been awarded The Joseph and Dorothy Fischer Memorial Fellowship, established in 1982 by the directors of the Trilog Corporation in honor of their founder, Joseph Fischer. The fellowship is awarded every other year to one outstanding Ph.D. or M.S. student from the Bren School, for use as a summer stipend. 
 


 

       Where are you from? 
                          I'm from Pacifica, a beach city just west of South San Francisco.  What are your previous academic degrees? 
                          I completed my M.S. in informatics at UC Irvine and my interdepartmental B.A. in artistic and mathematical space at the University of Rochester.  Why did you choose to pursue graduate studies at UCI? 
                          UC Irvine has a great atmosphere for interdisciplinary research. In particular, the
                                     EVOKE Lab 
                                    at CalIT2 provides a platform for studies spanning the arts, design and information sciences.  What is your current research focus? Why did you choose to go into this field of study? 
                          My research combines the fields of informatics and dance; I draw upon dance theory and dance improvisation to inform the choreography of experience design. I have chosen my area of study because I can't help but see the value in merging these fields for applications in design.  What are your future plans? 
                          At this moment, I am interested in working at a startup company. Tomorrow, I might dive back into academia.  How do you like to spend your time outside of school? 
                          If I had to pick a hobby, I suppose it would be bike riding. You can catch me practicing my "Premium Rush" moves when I bike to campus from my home in Santa Ana.  Any words of wisdom for prospective grad students looking to study at UCI? 
                          Take the time to make friends outside of school. Although it is easier to get to know classmates, it is refreshing to have peers who are passionate about things that are completely unrelated to the topics we learn about in class. 
 


 



  




 
 
 
   Quick Links   
                        
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 

</body> 