 Untitled<body>
 Rohit Khare -- Accomplishments 1995-7 
 
 This is a summary of some of my accomplishments at the W3C
over the past two years 
     World Wide Web Consortium 
   Major Projects 
   Other Activity Areas 
     Additional Outside Activity 
   Classes taken at MIT 
    Introduction 
 
When I graduated from Caltech in the spring of 1995, I had very
tough time choosing among several diverse career options. With
my dual background in computer science and economics, I was torn
between graduate school, software development, Wall Street, management
consulting, technology marketing, etc... Luckily, I struck an
ideal opportunity to help launch the World Wide Web Consortium
at MIT which blended aspects of each of these careers. Even before
graduating from Caltech, I joined on at MIT to work on Web Security
standards and I branched out from there. I have seen the Consortium
grow from three people to over thirty at MIT, INRIA in France,
and Keio University in Japan. My formal role at the consortium
has made a part of many W3C projects, and my informal role has
kept me in touch with the rest, a unique position reflected in
my editorship of the  Web Journal .
  
Given my mix of talents and interests, it's less surprising in
retrospect that in business, I'm positioned as a technical resource
(such as my software development ventures and newswriting), while
in this technical organization my business skills have been more
leveraged: public speaking, meeting management, coordination with
member companies' technical management, working closely with our
project managers, helping set the direction of our internal management,
press relations, and more. I want to become a graduate student
to focus exclusively on technical and scientific side, since I
have the rest of my professional life to develop my business skills.
  
At W3C, I have worked closely with almost every staff member,
so it's hard to pick out just one or two people to prepare a recommendation.
Even my direct supervisor, Jim Miller, has only overseen a portion
of my activities here. I've decided, then, to ask Director Tim
Berners-Lee alone to speak about my record here.
  Major Projects 
 
 Security 
  
Web security has been my abiding interest at the W3C. Web security
battles in the market were at their peak in spring 1995; I left
school immediately to rush out to W3C to get started. Within three
weeks, I formulated and presented our strategy to the Advisory
Committee, and we've followed through with it by and large for
the last two years. Over 1995, I drafted several technical proposals
for adding security to HTTP, including the Security Extension
Architecture (SEA) for our expert Security Editorial Review Board
(Ron Rivest, Butler Lampson, Jeff Schiller and others). These
results were presented to our member organizations' security experts
at quarterly working group meetings around the world (seven at
last count). I have also been tracking related developments in
this area intensively. I've attended and spoken at several related
professional conferences (RSA Data Security series, USENIX security
workshop, DIMACS Workshop on Trust Management, National Research
Council Information Systems Trustworthiness Project / Workshop
on Rights Management).
  
In 1996, we focused on deploying the first part of the security
plan, digital signatures. I outlined a novel approach to security
based on signed assertions rather than digital signatures alone.
I worked closely with Jim Miller to line up academic, commercial,
and government support from a wide range of organizations. The
DSIG meeting series dates back to April 1996 and represents our
major success in the security arena. Recently, I have been working
with project manager Philip DesAutels to write several key documents:
the overall architecture, signature label design, and key technical
specifications for the cryptography and label embedding. I have
helped supervise a Master's student who has been implementing
a trust engine which implements user policies based on signed
assertions.
  
I have represented the W3C in other security-related projects
at the IETF: DNS security, email security as it impacts HTTP/MIME,
and Transport Layer Security, where I have been running the mailing
list.
   Proposed Digital Signature Architecture
  Digital Signature Label Architecture
  Presentation on the history of W3C's involvement in security
and electronic commerce (4th International Web Conference)
  Presentation on W3C's approach to layered web security (1996
RSA Data Security Conference)
  Working Draft on the Security Extension Architecture (SEA)
   
 JEPI 
  
Electronic Payment was 'separated at birth' from Web Security.
From the beginning, W3C has maintained parallel tracks of interested
members on these two topics. During 1995, I worked with Philip
and Jim to host several Payments WG meetings and edited overview
papers and web pages. The first set of undergraduate researchers
I supervised began working in this area, by simulating electronic
shopping malls. Near the end of that year, Jim helped seed the
idea of JEPI, the Joint Electronic Payments Initiative with CommerceNet.
Beginning with videoconferences in Dec 95 and a kickoff meeting
in Jan 96, W3C brought key browser, server, payment, and merchant
players together to work on the critical glue technology for integrating
electronic payments with the Web. 
  
I worked closely with Donald Eastlake and technologists from each
of the participating firms to develop the technical proposal at
the heart of JEPI. This interacted strongly with the parallel
development of PEP. Development proceeded throughout spring and
summer through to August '96 in a series of face-to-face and teleconference
sessions. My role in this project has reduced since Daniel Dardailler
became project manager and Eui-Suk Chung took over as technical
contact.
  
Our efforts in developing and prosyletizing JEPI have been very
successful to gauge by the massive interest in JEPI2.
  
I also was technical liason to the Financial Services Technology
Consortium and participated in the First USENIX Workshop on eCommerce.
I am also a founding member of the Digital Commerce Society of
Boston.
   Selecting Payment Mechanisms Over HTTP
   
 PEP 
  
PEP is the technology underlying several of the initiatives of
the Technology &amp; Society Domain. I have worked closely with
a long list of HTTP designers to understand this problem area
and make cogent proposals. This has been a substantially more
difficult assignment than anyone foresaw, especially with the
joint proposal of technology for extension  and  negotiation
over extensions to use. I have created several drafts of the technology
and trained several dozen people in its use. It's been a major
education to work with the IETF and the IETF process.
  
I have also worked closely with Henrik and Anselm to prepare prototype
implementations in our code base. I have supervised undergraduate
research students who have worked on separate implementations
as well.
   HTTP/1.1 Extension Protocol (PEP)
   
 PICS 
  
Supported Jim, Paul Resnick and others in the technical design,
review, and current evolution of PICS. Work on Digital Signature
initiative fed into PICS-1.2 revision.
  
 Web Journal 
  
Editor-in-Chief of the World Wide Web Journal (W3J), an official
publication of the W3C published by O'Reilly &amp; Associates.
I was responsible for setting the theme, selecting articles, editing
technical papers, and more. Prepared three issues to date:  The
Web After Five Years  (Demographics),  Building an Industrial
Strength Web  (HTTP and related protocols),  Advancing HTML:
Style and Substance  (User Interface technology), and upcoming
issues on scripting languages and Web Security.
  Other Activity Areas 
 
 Demographics 
  
There is intense commercial interest in understanding the demographics
of Web usage, which must be balanced against users' privacy concerns
in Web protocols. I coordinated W3C activity in this area from
Fall 1995 to Summer 1996. 
  
One of the highlights was organizing and speaking at the W3C/MIT
Workshop on Internet Survey Methodology and Web Demographics.
At the same time, I became heavily involved in the HTTP state-management
subgroup preparing a specification for user-tracking 'cookies',
currently an IETF Proposed Standard.
  
 Architecture Domain 
  
Whiteboard discussions with the experts about the future of the
Web have been the real joy of this job. As W3C's "Technology
Expert", I have participated in W3C workshops and specifications
about mobile code, scripting languages, distributed objects, fonts,
printing, link architecture, and the design of next-generation
HTTP. Along the way, I also took on the role of liason to the
Object Management Group and MIT researchers working on caching
and naming systems.
  
 Web Conference Series 
  
I participated, reviewed papers, and spoke at the Fourth and Fifth
International Web Conferences. I am also the official W3C liason
to the upcoming Sixth Conference, responsible for the W3C conference
track, panels, and developer day programs.
  Additional Outside Activities 
 
Reviewed WebObjects technology in July 1996 Byte magazine.
  
Corporate Internet strategy consulting for Roadrunner Technology,
Canon, and Bain &amp; Co.
  Classes taken at MIT 
 
 6.852J Distributed Algorithms  
  
Design and analysis of concurrent algorithms, emphasizing those
suitable for use in distributed networks. Process synchronization,
allocation of computational resources, distributed consensus,
dstributed graph algorithms, election of a leader in a network,
distributed selection, distributed termination, deadlock detection,
concurrency control, communication, clock synchronization. Special
consideration given to issues of efficiency and fault tolerance.
Formal models for distributed computation. 
  
Nancy A. Lynch
  
 Grade : A. This class included a final project, where we
investigated locking and leasing protocols for multiuser Web authoring:
  
 Formal Modeling of a Resource-Leasing Extension to HTTP  By modeling a network of HTTP agents as asynchronous network
automata (with access to clocks), we can help articulate the power
and limits of Web-based computation. We model relevant aspects
of HTTP and use the result to treat the problem of resource check-out/check-in
from a single server.  
 
 6.826 Principles of Computer Systems  
  
An introduction to the basic principles of computer systems with
emphasis on the use of rigorous techniques as an aid to understanding
and building modern computing systems. Particular attention paid
to concurrent and distributed systems. Topics include specification
and verification, concurrent algorithms, synchronization mechanisms,
naming, communication protocols, replication techniques (including
distributed cache management), and principles and algorithms for
achieving reliability.
  
Nancy A. Lynch and Butler Lampson
  
 Grade : I. Though I did well on the exams, increasing W3C-related
travel put me irrecoverably behind on homeworks.
 </body> 