 Southern California SPIN Meeting Coordinator's 
Responsibilities and Timetable
<body>

 
   Southern California SPIN  
Meeting Coordinator's Responsibilities and Timetable  

 
 
As early as possible, ask the potential speaker if they would 
be willing to be a SPIN speaker.  Explore possible SPIN dates 
against the speaker's calendar. 

  
 Speakers not familiar with us often want to know about us to 
help determine 1) whether they want to speak to our audience and 2) what 
they would say based on our background. To assist in this regard, you
should point them to, or give/email them a copy of, the 
 
SPIN Speaker's Meeting Guidelines  which is available at 
 
http://www.ics.uci.edu/IRUS/spin/spin_speaker_guidelines.html 


  
 Explain that, as the coordinator, you will be collecting various 
information and passing it to the IRUS Technical Relations Director,
Debra Brodbeck. 
Make sure the speaker has your phone, email, and FAX for contacting you 
with any questions.  The information we need from the speaker is:
  
    For the flyer:
  name, title, and affiliation (as they want it to appear the flyer)    email address    URL (if available)    presentation title
  presentation abstract
  bio
    For contacting the speaker:
  phone number    FAX    complete snail mail address so we can send parking pass, map,
    flyer, etc.        Flyers are finalized such that they are made available at the SPIN 
meeting TWO months in advance, i.e. for two meetings prior. 

 
  About the first of the month 3 months prior to the SPIN 
 
 Remind the speaker that you need their name, title, 
affiliation, email address, and URL (if available) as they want it 
to appear on the flyer. You also need the presentation title,
presentation abstract, and their bio at this time.  Give them a sample 
from a previous email flyer. Remember to get their
their complete contact information for yourself and IRUS. 

  
 Emphasize that we can include only one or two paragraphs.  Expect to have 
to cut what they give you.  Some speakers have a long biography.  
Snip the parts that our audience will want and keep the rest 
for your oral introduction of the speaker.  That way you will 
have something to say that is not on the flyer.    
Tell the speaker you need this by the 10th of the appropriate month
to give you, the 
coordinator, enough time to edit them down and get them to the 
IRUS Technical Relations Director by the 15th.

  
 When you [the coordinator] have this information edited
and ready , please send plain ascii text via email to:
   the IRUS Technical Relations Director: Debra Brodbeck,  
 brodbeck@ics.uci.edu 

   
 Plain ASCII text is best for most of us.  If you also want to 
send it as HTML (no fancy bells and whistles), we may be able 
to get it onto Web pages more quickly. 

  
 We get into other organizations' newsletters if we get the 
information in on time or early AND they have space.  The best 
thing is to provide 2 to 3 versions:  
  
   Version one just has the Date, Time, Place, Topic, Speaker, 
Coordinator, Price ($15 +$4 parking) and Contact Person which is the IRUS
Technical Relations Director - Debra Brodbeck, UCI/IRUS, brodbeck@ics.uci.edu,
(949) 824-2260.  
  Version two has the same plus a very short abstract.  
  Version three can have all the information we put on our flyers.
   
 Version 1 is most accepted and you can get it in a month early, 
but send it again before the deadline for the next newsletter.

  
 Giving the overworked newsletter editor a choice gives us more 
of a say over what does not get cut.  If we make their job easier, 
we are more likely to get our information into their newsletter.

  
  About 3 weeks before the talk 

 
 Remind the speaker that they should bring at least 60 copies 
of their viewgraphs as a handout (2-4 viewgraphs per page, make sure
the diagrams and text aren't too small).  IRUS prefers 
that the speaker bring the copies to save expenses. But, especially 
if the speaker is flying in, IRUS will make the copies if they 
receive a clean master no later than 1 week prior to the meeting.
The address for this is:

  
 snail mail:    
	Debra Brodbeck 
	Information and Computer Science 
	240 ICS2 
	University of California, Irvine 
	Irvine, CA 92697-3425   
 FedEx or other special delivery:    
	Debra Brodbeck 
	Information and Computer Science 
	CS 444 
	University of California, Irvine 
	Irvine, CA 92697-3425  
	(949) 824-7403  

Remind the speaker about the steering committee lunch and 
find out if they want to attend (for the lunch headcount, and be sure to
notify the IRUS Technical Relations Director or Administrator).  Warn 
the speaker that we discuss the current meeting and plan the future 
meetings. Indicate to them that they can stay for as long or as little
as they like, i.e. when they get bored, they can leave :-)

 
IRUS will send a letter addressing AV requests along with a map, 
directions, parking pass, and flyer approximately 3 weeks prior 
to the meeting. An electronic version of this letter (i.e. sans hard copy
materials) will also be emailed to them at that time.

  

   At the SPIN Meeting  

At the SPIN meeting, you will:
   Welcome the attendees.
   Introduce the speakers.
   Remind the speaker of the time at which their presentation should end.
   Keep track of time, and be prepared to end presentations that run
     long or cut off Q/A if time runs short. You should determine a
     method for letting the speaker know how much time is remaining
     during their presentation, e.g.
     some coordinators hold up sheets of paper with a 5 (for 5 minutes) and 
     a 1 (for 1 minute) remaining. Coordinate this with the speaker in
     advance.

   Thank the speakers at the conclusion on their presentation.
      
     The IRUS Technical Relations Director will present a Certificate of 
     Appreciation to each speaker at the conclusion of their talk.
   At the beginning of the break, tell the audience at what time the
     meeting will resume.
   At the end of the meeting, thank the audience for attending.
   
   
Written by Karen Owens, 
 k.owens@ieee.org  
Updated  6/20/97  
Updated  7/20/98 by Debra Brodbeck,
 brodbeck@ics.uci.edu  
Updated  8/04/98 by Debra Brodbeck    
Permission to copy is granted to other SPINs as long 
as credit is given to the Southern California 
Software Process Improvement Network (SPIN) and the author, 
and logical changes changes are made (e.g., changing "IRUS 
representative" to an appropriate role, changing email 
and other addresses appropriately).

  
Return to  SPIN home
page. 

 </body> 