 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
Minimum spanning trees
 
   Maintenance of a minimum spanning forest in a dynamic plane graph . 
D. Eppstein, 
 G.F. Italiano , 
 R. Tamassia , 
 R.E. Tarjan ,
J. Westbrook,
and M. Yung.  
 1st ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete Algorithms, 
San Francisco, 1990, pp. 1–11 .  J. Algorithms  13 (1): 33–54, 1992
(special issue for 1st Symp. Discrete Algorithms). 
Corrigendum,  J. Algorithms  15: 173, 1993.
 
The complement of a
 minimum spanning tree  is a maximum spanning tree in
the dual graph.  By applying this fact we can use a modified form of
Sleator and Tarjan's dynamic tree data structure to update the MST in
logarithmic time per update.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Approximating the minimum weight Steiner triangulation . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 91-55 , ICS, UCI, 1991.   3rd ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete Algorithms,  Orlando, 1992, pp. 48–57 .   Disc. Comp. Geom.  11: 163–191, 1994 .
 
 Quadtree  based
 triangulation  gives a large but constant factor
 approximation 
to the minimum weight triangulation of a point set or
convex polygon, allowing extra Steiner points to be added as vertices.
Includes proofs of several bounds on triangulation weight relative to
the  minimum spanning tree  or non-Steiner
triangulation, and a conjecture
that for convex polygons the only points that need to be added are on
the polygon boundary.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Tree-weighted neighbors and geometric  k  smallest spanning trees . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 92-77 , ICS, UCI, 1992.  Int. J. Comp. Geom. &amp; Appl.  4: 229–238, 1994.
 
" Finding the  k  smallest spanning trees "
used higher order Voronoi diagrams to reduce the geometric
  k  smallest 
 spanning tree  problem to the graph problem.
Here I instead use nearest neighbors for a modified
distance function where the bottleneck shortest path length
is subtracted from the true distance between points.
The result improves the planar time bounds and extends
more easily to higher dimensions.
  ( BibTeX  --
 CiteSeer )

  
    On the number of minimal 1-Steiner trees .  B. Aronov ,
 M. Bern ,
and D. Eppstein.   Disc. &amp; Comp. Geom.  12: 29–34, 1994 .
 
Given a  d -dimensional set of  n  points,
the number of combinatorially different
 minimum spanning trees  that can be formed
by adding one more point is within a polylogarithmic factor of
 n d . 
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Dynamic Euclidean minimum spanning trees and extrema of binary functions . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 92-05 , ICS, UCI, 1992.  Tech. Rep. 92-88 , ICS, UCI, 1992.   Disc. Comp. Geom.  13: 111–122, 1995 .
 
Shows that bichromatic nearest neighbors can be maintained under point
insertion and deletion essentially as quickly as known solutions to the
post office problem, and that the
 minimum spanning tree  can be
maintained in the same time except for an additive O(sqrt  n ) needed for
solving the corresponding graph problem.
TR 92-88's title was actually "Fully dynamic maintenance of Euclidean
minimum spanning trees and maxima of decomposable functions".
TR 92-05's title left out the part about maxima; that version gave a slower
algorithm superseded by the result in 92-88.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 Closest pair project page  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Dynamic algorithms for half-space reporting, proximity problems, and
geometric minimum spanning trees .  P.K. Agarwal ,
D. Eppstein, and
 J. Matoušek .   33rd IEEE Symp. Foundations of
Comp. Sci.,  Pittsburgh, 1992, pp. 80–89 .
 
This conference paper merged my results from
" Dynamic Euclidean minimum
spanning trees " with results of my co-authors on nearest neighbors
and halfspace range searching.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
    Sparsification--A technique for speeding up dynamic graph algorithms . 
D. Eppstein,
 Z. Galil , 
 
G.F. Italiano , and A. Nissenzweig.  33rd IEEE Symp. Foundations of Comp. Sci.,  Pittsburgh, 1992, pp. 60–69. 
Tech. Rep. RC 19272 (83907), IBM, 1993. 
Tech. Rep. CS96-11, Univ. Ca' Foscari di Venezia, Oct. 1996.   J. ACM  44 (5): 669–696, 1997 .
 
Uses a divide and conquer on the edge set of a graph, together with the
idea of replacing subgraphs by sparser certificates, to make various
dynamic algorithms as fast on dense graphs as they are on sparse graphs.
Applications include random generation of spanning trees
as well as finding the  k 
 minimum weight spanning trees 
for a given parameter  k. 
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 MIT hypertext bibliography  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Improved sparsification . 
D. Eppstein,
 Z. Galil , and 
 
G.F. Italiano .  Tech. Rep. 93-20 , ICS, UCI, 1993.
 
Saves a log factor over dynamic graph algorithms in
" Sparsification "
and their applications, by dividing vertices instead of edges.
Merged into the journal version of "Sparsification".
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Separator based sparsification for dynamic planar graph algorithms . 
D. Eppstein,
 Z. Galil , 
 
G.F. Italiano , and T. Spencer.   25th ACM Symp. Theory of Computing,  San Diego, 1993, pp. 208–217. 
 
Replaces portions of a hierarchical separator decomposition with smaller
certificates to achieve fast update times for various dynamic planar graph problems.  Applications include finding the  k 
 best spanning trees  of a planar graph.
  
( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 MIT hypertext bibliography )
  
    Separator based sparsification I:
planarity testing and minimum spanning trees . 
D. Eppstein,
 Z. Galil , 
 
G.F. Italiano , and T. Spencer.  
 J. Comp. Sys. Sci.  52: 3–27, 1996
(special issue for 25th STOC) .
 
First half of journal version of
 Separator based sparsification for dynamic planar graph algorithms .
  
( Citations  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Average case analysis of dynamic geometric optimization . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 93-18 , ICS, UCI, 1993.  
 5th ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete Algorithms,  Arlington, 1994, pp. 77–86 .  
 Comp. Geom. Theory &amp; Applications  6: 45–68, 1996 .
 
The Tech. Report used the more informative title
"Updating widths and maximum spanning trees using the rotating caliper graph",
which I also used for the journal submission,
but the referees made me change it back.
Dynamic geometry in a model of Mulmuley and Schwarzkopf in which insertions
and deletions are chosen randomly among a worst-case pool of points.
This paper introduces several fundamental techniques
including the  rotating caliper
graph  of a point set and a method for performing
decomposible range queries in the average case setting.
It has also since inspired the use of a similar model in dynamic graph
algorithms.
  ( BibTeX  --
 SODA paper  --
 Full paper  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Faster circle packing with application to nonobtuse triangulation . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 94-33 , ICS, UCI 1994.  Int. J. Comp. Geom. &amp; Appl.  7 (5): 485–491, 1997.
 
Speeds up a triangulation algorithm of Bern et al.
[" Linear-Size
Nonobtuse Triangulation of Polygons "] by finding a
collection of disjoint circles
which connect up the holes in a non-simple polygon.
The method is to use a
 minimum spanning tree  to find a collection of
overlapping circles, then shrink them one by one to reduce the number of
overlaps, using Sleator and
Tarjan's dynamic tree data structure to keep track of the
connectivity of the shrunken circles.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
    Worst-case bounds for subadditive geometric graphs .  M. Bern 
and D. Eppstein.   9th ACM Symp. Comp. Geom.,  San Diego, 1993, pp. 183–188. 
 
For many geometric graph problems for points in the unit square,
such as  minimum spanning trees ,
 matching , and
 traveling salesmen ,
the sum of edge lengths is O(sqrt  n ) and the sum of
 d th powers of edge lengths is O(log  n ).
We provide a "gap theorem" showing that if these bounds do not hold
for a class of graphs, both sums will instead be Omega( n ).
For traveling salesmen the O(log  n ) bound is tight
but for some other graphs the sum of
 d th powers of edge lengths is O(1).
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 Preprint of SCG version  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Geometric lower bounds for parametric matroid optimization . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 95-11 , ICS, UCI, 1995.   27th ACM Symp. Theory of Computing,  Las Vegas, 1995, pp. 662–671 .   Disc. Comp. Geom.  20: 463–476, 1998 .
 
Considers graphs in which edge weights are linear functions of time.
Shows nonlinear lower bounds on the number of different
 minimum spanning trees  appearing
over time by translation from geometric problem of lower envelopes of line segments.
A matroid generalization has a better lower bound coming from many faces
in line arrangements, and the uniform matroid problem is
equivalent to the geometric  k -set problem.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 MIT hypertext bibliography )
  
    Faster geometric  k -point MST approximation . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 95-13 , ICS, UCI, 1995.  Comp. Geom. Theory &amp; Applications  8: 231–240, 1997.
 
Various authors have looked at a variant of geometric clustering
in which one must select  k  points that can be connected by a
small
 spanning tree .  The problem is NP-complete (for
variable  k );
good approximations are known based on dynamic programming techniques
but the time dependence on  n  is high.  This paper describes
a faster approximation algorithm based on dynamic programming in
quadtrees, and a general technique
based on that in " Iterated nearest neighbors "
for reducing the dependence
on  n  in any approximation algorithm.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Representing all minimum spanning trees with applications to
counting and generation . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 95-50 , ICS, UCI, 1995.
 
Shows how to find for any edge weighted graph G an equivalent
graph EG such that the  minimum spanning trees 
of G correspond one-for-one with the spanning trees of EG.
The equivalent graph can be
constructed in time O(m+n log n) given a single minimum spanning tree of
G.  As a consequence one can find fast algorithms for counting, listing,
and randomly generating MSTs.
Also discusses similar
equivalent graph constructions for
 shortest paths , minimum cost flows,
and  bipartite matching .
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
    Using sparsification for parametric minimum spanning tree problems .  
D. Fernández-Baca ,
 
G. Slutzki , and D. Eppstein.   5th Scand. Worksh. Algorithm Theory,  Reykjavik, 1996 . 
Springer,  Lecture Notes in
Comp. Sci.  1097, 1996, pp. 149–160.   Nordic J. Computing 
3 (4): 352–366, 1996 (special issue for 5th SWAT). 
 
Given a graph with edge weights that are linear functions of a parameter,
finds the sequence of
 minimum spanning trees  produced as the parameter varies,
in total time O(mn log n), by combining ideas
from " Sparsification "
and " Geometric lower bounds ".
Also solves various problems of optimizing the parameter value,
including one closely related to that in
" Choosing subsets with maximum weighted average ".
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 MIT hypertext bibliography  --
 ACM DL (SWAT)  --
 ACM DL (NJC) )
  
    On the parity of graph spanning tree numbers . 
D. Eppstein.  Tech. Rep. 96-14 , ICS, UCI, 1996.
 
Any bipartite Eulerian graph, any Eulerian graph with evenly many vertices,
and any bipartite graph with evenly many vertices and edges, has an even
number of
 spanning trees .
More generally, a graph has evenly many spanning trees if and only if it
has an Eulerian edge cut.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Parametric and kinetic minimum spanning trees .  P. K. Agarwal ,
D. Eppstein,
 L. J. Guibas ,
and
 M. R. Henzinger .  
 39th IEEE Symp. Foundations of Comp. Sci. , 1998, pp. 596–605. .
 
We describe algorithms for maintaining the
 minimum spanning tree  in a graph
in which the edge weights are piecewise linear functions of time that
may change unpredictably.  We solve the problem in time
O(n 2/3  polylog n)
per combinatorial change to the tree for general graphs, and in time
O(n 1/4  polylog n) per combinatorial change to the tree for planar graphs.
  ( BibTeX  --
 FOCS '98 talk slides  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Setting parameters by example . 
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.DS/9907001 .   40th
IEEE Symp. Foundations of Comp. Sci. , 1999, pp. 309–318 .  
 SIAM J. Computing  32 (3): 643–653, 2003 .
 
We introduce a class of "inverse parametric optimization"
problems, in which one is given both a parametric optimization problem
and a desired optimal solution; the task is to determine parameter
values that lead to the given solution.  We use
 low-dimensional linear programming 
and geometric sampling techniques to solve
such problems for
 minimum spanning trees ,
 shortest paths , and
other optimal subgraph problems, and discuss applications in
multicast routing, vehicle path planning, resource allocation, and board
game programming.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 ACM DL (FOCS)  --
 ACM DL (SJC) )
  
    Testing bipartiteness of geometric intersection graphs . 
D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.CG/0307023 .  15th ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete Algorithms, 
New Orleans, 2004, pp. 853–861.   ACM Trans. Algorithms  5(2):15, 2009 .
 
We consider problems of partitioning sets of geometric objects into two
subsets, such that no two objects within the same subset intersect each
other.  Typically, such problems can be solved in quadratic time by
constructing the intersection graph and then applying a graph
bipartiteness testing algorithm; we achieve subquadratic times for
general objects, and O(n log n) times for balls in R^d or simple
polygons in the plane, by using geometric data structures, separator
based divide and conquer, and plane sweep techniques, respectively.
We also contrast the complexity of bipartiteness testing with that of
connectivity testing, and provide evidence that for some classes of
object, connectivity is strictly harder due to a computational
equivalence with Euclidean
 minimum spanning trees .
  
( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 SODA talk slides )
  
     
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 