 Applications and
Demos, CS 175 
  
  





    Examples of Software and Demos for
Text Analysis   

CS 175, Winter 2017  
 
The links below are
just a small example of the many Web pages you can find discussing
research demos, applications, sample code, for text analysis using AI
and machine learning techniques. These are intended to be a starting
point to help you in terms of thinking about ideas for projects.     Sentiment Analysis     Sentiment140 : a very
comprehensive list of resources related to sentiment analysis, particularly for
Twitter. Also includes 
  labeled Twitter data  

 Stanford deep learning demo
for sentiment analysis  (Web page with code, data, papers)
   
Sentiment analysis of short informal texts  (research
paper)  

Example of
using Python to build a  Naive Bayes text
classifier for sentiment analysis .  


Blog tutorial on
building a classifier in  NLTK to classify tweets as positive or
negative sentiment .      Information Extraction     GATE demos and software  on
information extraction  Reverb software   for information extraction from the Web,
 from the University of Washington       Question Answering      The Aristo Project   from
the Allen Institute for AI, for acquiring knowledge and question-answering.
Includes links to several research papers.    The Quepy System   (in python)
for converting natural language questions into queries in a database query language.   Semantic parsing for
question answering  (from Stanford NLP group)    Embedding Text in Vector Spaces     word2vec from
Google  (with code)  Recurrent neural
networks for word embeddings  (with Python code)     Other Applications    

 BookNLP, extracting information from books:  Github repository 
(Java code) by David Bamman.   Making predictions from search query data , slide presentation
from Choi and Varian  Text
mining for analyzing the biomedical literature , introduction by
Cohen and Hunter, 2008 

Implementing a spelling corrector.  Blog post and Python
code  by Peter Norvig, Director of Research at Google.     Software Packages for NLP and Text Analysis    
(general-purpose toolkits with multiple components and algorithms -
see also NLTK 3.0 and scikit-learn as discussed in class)  Gensim : Python library
for topic modeling, document indexing, and similarity retrieval  Textblob 
:  General Python library for analyzing text data (built on top
of NLTK and pattern).  Pattern : A Web mining
module in Python (doesn't support Python 3)  MALLET : useful toolkit
(in Java) from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst
(particularly for classification and topic modeling) 
    (also: a tutorial article on  how to use MALLET for topic modeling )  Stanford NLP Software   Software
packages for NLP  from the University of Illinois (UIUC)  List of text
mining tools  from the Digital Research Tools Website  </body> 