 trina choontanom spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Trina Choontanom spotlight 

 
 

  The Dilemma</strong>
 
 
  Trina Choontanom 
 
 Sometimes it pays to be the youngest child. 
 Trina Choontanom, a senior computer science and engineer major, credits her two older sisters for sparking her interest in the field of computer science. 
 “My oldest sister taught me HTML and from there I taught myself how to make basic webpages and eventually moved into CSS and PHP,” Choontanom said. “I realized that I liked to look at code, tinker around with it, and be able to see the results of it.  My other sister encouraged me to get into the hardware side by opening up computer towers and showing me the various parts.” 
 But when it came time to pick a college major, Choontanom couldn’t decide if she wanted to go into computer science or computer engineering.  
 Luckily, UC Irvine made the choice easy by offering the  Computer Science and Engineering major (CSE) . 
 Offered jointly by the Bren School of ICS, the first independent computer science school within the UC system, and The Henry Samueli School of Engineering, the Computer Science and Engineering major gives students access to multidisciplinary problems with a focus on total systems engineering. 
 “I saw that UCI had a combined CSE major and went with that,” Choontanom said. “It pretty much solved my dilemma of choosing.” 
  BUILDING A FOUNDATION</strong> 
 Choontanom, a San Bernardino native, hadn’t taken any computer programming classes until she set foot on UCI’s campus.  
 “The curriculum of the International Baccalaureate (honors) program at my high school didn’t have any computer related classes and there was no chance to take normal level classes – in fact, I’m not sure if there were any computer science related classes at my high school,” Choontanom said. 
 Despite not having had any formal computer science training, Choontanom found the CSE curriculum provided her a strong foundation that she can build on during her career.  
 
 Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.
 
 “Although there is an emphasis on Java, I have been able to pick up other languages, such as C and C++,” Choontanom said. “The program has helped me overcome the intimidation of complex entities (such as languages and operating systems) by giving me the basics and from there I can expand with what’s needed and what I’m interested in.” 
 The CSE program also provides students a chance to gain a better understanding of the hardware side of computers too.  
 “The embedded systems class has a lab section where you actually implement what you’ve learned in class,” Choontanom said. “I had never touched physical circuits (actual resistor or capacitors) before coming to UCI. It's one thing to see a circuit drawn on paper and another to actually put it together. It feels like your CSE experience just isn't complete until you wire together a blinking LED or your own music player.” 
 UCI has also provided Choontanom opportunities to get valuable real world work experience to enhance what she has learned in the classroom.  
 For the past year, she has been a web intern for University Communications and works on the uci.edu web page as well as other UCI department and program web pages and has developed an RSS feed for the ZotWire news site. 
 Working for University Communications has allowed Choontanom to interact with students from various majors and the interdisciplinary interaction has helped expand her knowledge beyond the realm of computer science. 
 “It's nice to talk to people from other majors because they'll sometimes off handedly mention things you never knew before, but seems like common knowledge to them,” Choontanom said.  
 She is also conducting undergraduate research with professor Bonnie Nardi on the concept of build theory in Massively Multiplayer Online Games (MMOGs) like World of Warcraft. 
  GIVING BACK</strong> 
 During her sophomore year, Choontanom joined  UCI’s Women in Computer Science (WICS) group , an organization established to help and encourage women to pursue a college degree and a successful career in the Computer Science fields.  
 She was encouraged by her mentor at WICS to apply for an officer position and her junior year she became the WICS Secretary. The position provided her an opportunity to encourage other young girls to pursue a career in the field of computer science.  
 “I was able to accompany the then president at Eureka!, a Girls Inc. summer program, where we taught girls how to use basic windows office programs, the internet, and Flash,” Choontanom said. “Some events are workshops (such as the Unix/Linux workshop) and those provide a fun learning environment where you go because you want to be there to be exposed to something new.” 
  WORK HARD PLAY HARD</strong> 
 The CSE program has been a challenge for Choontanom and she has had more of her fair share of late nights in the lab with some of her CSE friends and teammates. 
 But these late nights can lead to moments of levity, like when her group performed an impromptu magic trick late at night while trying to finish difficult homework and labs. 
 “There are a variety of people in your classes and they aren't all 
              stereotypical geeks and nerds, always spending time in front of the 
              computer - there's a lot that will socialize away from the computer, 
              be involved in sports and other clubs, and party,” Choontanom said.  
 Choontanom likes to relax and unwind by taking a Filipino Martial Arts at the  Anteater Recreation Center  or indulging in her hobbies of web development and design and watching anime or reading manga.  
 Every now and then she’ll pick up her violin and play for a few minutes, or mess around with a little gymnastics. 
 “Since school has been a kind of straightforward, driven path, my hobbies have taken the polar opposite by fueling my imagination for creativity in various form of arts,” Choontanom said.  
 With graduation fast approaching, Choontanom is still unsure of whether she wants to go on to graduate school or enter the work force.  
 But she is certain of one thing, she has loved her time at UCI and has made many life long friendships.  
 And to those students considering pursuing computer science at UCI, she offers this advice. 
“If you have the slightest interest in computer science, take the beginning 20-series classes or sit in on a few lectures of the upper division classes to see if it's something you want to do,” Choontanom said. “It will be hard, especially if you haven't had any programming experience before but if you have the determination and that interest grows as you continue, then you know you're in the right place.”


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 