 The Geometry Junkyard: Symmetry and Group Theory<body>

 
   
 
  
  
Symmetry and Group Theory
 
   The
Aesthetics of Symmetry , essay and design tips by Jeff Chapman.
 
    Antipodes .
Jim Propp asks whether the two farthest apart points,
as measured by surface distance, on a symmetric convex body
must be opposite each other on the body.
Apparently this is open even for rectangular boxes.
 
    Associating the
symmetry of the Platonic solids  with polymorf manipulatives.
 
    Border
pattern gallery . Oklahoma State U. class project displaying examples
of the seven types of symmetry (frieze groups) possible for
linear patterns in the plane.
 
    Cognitive Engineering
Lab , Java applets for exploring tilings, symmetry, polyhedra, and
four-dimensional polytopes.
 
    Conceptual proof that
inversion sends circles to circles , G. Kuperberg.
 
    Convex
Archimedean polychoremata , 4-dimensional analogues of the
semiregular solids, described by Coxeter-Dynkin diagrams
representing their symmetry groups.
 
    Crystallographic
topology .  C. Johnson and M. Burnett of Oak Ridge National Lab use
topological methods to understand and classify the symmetries of the
lattice structures formed by crystals.  (Somewhat technical.)
 
    Crystallography
now , tutorial on the seventeen plane symmetry groups by
George Baloglou.
 
    Diamond theory .
Steven Cullinane studies the symmetries of the shapes formed by
splitting each square of a grid into dark and light triangles.
 
    Dreamscope 
screen-saver module makes patterns with various Kaleidoscopic symmetries.
 
    Escher's
combinatorial patterns , D. Schattschneider, Elect. J. Combinatorics.
 
    Michael Field's gallery 
of symmetric chaos images.
See his  home page 
for more links to pages on dynamics, symmetry, and chaos.
 
    Figure eight knot / horoball diagram .
Research of A. Edmonds into the symmetries of knots,
relating them to something that looks
like a packing of spheres.
The MSRI Computing Group uses 
 another horoball
diagram  as their logo.
 
   Fractal patterns formed by repeated inversion of circles:
 Indra's Pearls 
 Inversion graphics gallery , Xah Lee.
 Inversive circles , W. Gilbert, Waterloo.
     
 
    Gavrog , a Java package for
visualizing 2d and 3d ornamental patterns with high degrees of symmetry.
 
    Geometry and the Imagination in Minneapolis .
Notes from a workshop led by Conway, Doyle, Gilman, and Thurston.
Includes several sections on polyhedra, knots, and symmetry groups.
 
    The Graph of the Truncated Icosahedron and the Last Letter of Galois ,
B. Kostant, Not. AMS, Sep. 1995.
Group theoretic mathematics of buckyballs.
See also  J. Baez's
review of Kostant's paper .
 
    Hecatohedra .
John Conway discusses the possible symmetry groups of hundred-sided polyhedra.
   
   
    The icosahedron, the great icosahedron, graph designs, and Hadamard matrices . Notes by M. Brundage from a talk by M. Rosenfeld.
 
    Investigating
Patterns: Symmetry and Tessellations .
Companion site to a middle school text by Jill Britton,
with links to many other web sites involving symmetry or tiling.
 
    Jenn 
open-source software for visualizing Cayley graphs of Coxeter groups
as symmetric 4-dimensional polytopes.
 
    Joe's Cafe .
Java applets for creating images of iteration systems
a la Field and Golubitsky's "Symmetry in Chaos".
 
    K12
on G6 .  Carlo Séquin investigates how to draw a 12-vertex
complete graph as symmetrically as possible on a six-handle surface
(the minimum genus surface on which it can be drawn without crossings).
 
    Kaleidoscope
geometry , Ephraim Fithian.
 
    Kali ,
software for making symmetrical drawings based on any of the 17 plane
tiling groups.
 
    Kummer's
surface . Nice ray-traced pictures of a quartic surface with lots of
symmetries.
 
    MagicTile .
Klein's quartic meets the Rubik's cube, by Roice Nelson.
 
    Mirror Curves .
Slavik Jablan investigates patterns formed by crisscrossing a curve around points in a regular grid, and finds examples of these patterns in
art from various cultures.
 
    Models of Platonic solids 
and related symmetric polyhedra.
 
    Moebius
transformations revealed . Video by Douglas N. Arnold and Jonathan
Rogness explaining 2d Moebius transformations in terms of the motions of
a 3d sphere. See also  MathTrek .
 
    Origami: a study in symmetry .  M. Johnson and B. Beug, Capital H.S.
 
    Parabolic
isometry of an ideal hyperbolic triangulation .
Animation by John Griffin.
 
    Platonic
solids and quaternion groups , J. Baez.
 
    Platonic spheres .
Java animation, with a discussion of platonic solid classification,
Euler's formula, and sphere symmetries.
 
    Platonic
tesselations of Riemann surfaces , Gerard Westendorp.
 
    ProtoZone 
interactive shockwave museum exhibits for exploring geometric concepts
such as symmetry, tiling, and wallpaper groups.
 
    Puzzles
with polyhedra and numbers ,
J. Rezende.
Some questions about labeling edges of platonic solids with numbers,
and their connections with group theory.
 
    Rational
maps with symmetries .
Buff and Henriksen investigate rational functions invariant under
certain families of Möbius transformations, and use them to
generate symmetric Julia sets.
 
    Rhombic
tilings .  Abstract of Serge Elnitsky's thesis, "Rhombic tilings of
polygons and classes of reduced words in Coxeter groups".  He also supplied the
picture below of a rhombically tiled 48-gon, available with better color
resolution from his website.
 
     
    Sighting point .
John McKay asks, given a set of co-planar points, how to find
a point to view them all from in a way that maximizes the
minimum viewing angle between any two points.
Somehow this is related to monodromy groups.
I don't know whether he ever got a useful response.
 
    Soccer
ball pictures ,
spherical patterns generated by reflections that form rational angles to each
other.
 
   
Spherical
Julia set with dodecahedral symmetry
discovered by McMullen and Doyle in their work on
 quintic equations  and rendered by
Don Mitchell.
Update 12/14/00: I've lost the big version of this image and can't find
DonM anywhere on the net -- can anyone help?
In the meantime, here's a link to
 McMullen's
rendering .
      
    Steve's sprinklers .
An interesting 3d polygon made of copper pipe forms various symmetric 2d shapes
when viewed from different directions.
 
    Wilson
Stothers' Cabri pages .
Geometric animations teaching projective conics,
hyperbolic geometry, and the Klein view of geometry as symmetry.
 
    SymmeToy ,
windows shareware for creating paint patterns, symmetry roses,
tessellated art and symmetrically decorated 3D polyhedron models.
 
    Symmetries of torus-shaped polyhedra 
 
    Symmetry,
tilings, and polyhedra , S. Dutch.
 
    Symmetry and Tilings .  Charles Radin, Not. AMS, Jan. 1995.
See also his
 Symmetry
of Tilings of the Plane , Bull. AMS 29 (1993), which proves that the
pinwheel tiling is ergodic and can be generated by matching rules.
 
    Symmetry
in Threshold Design in South India .
 
    Symmetry web , an exploration of the symmetries of geometric figures.
 
    Tales of the
dodecahedron , from Pythagoras to Plato to Poincaré. John
Baez, Reese Prosser Memorial Lecture, Dartmouth, 2006.
 
    Taprats 
Java software for generating symmetric Islamic-style star patterns.
 
    Temari 
dodecahedrally decorated Japanese thread ball.
See also  Summer's
temari gallery  for many more.
 
    Morwen Thistlethwait ,
sphere packing, computational topology, symmetric knots,
and giant ray-traced floating letters.
 
    Thoughts on the number six .
John Baez contemplates the symmetries of the icosahedron.
 
    TileDreams 
Windows software for creating symmetric patterns with rhombi.
 
    Tiling the integers with one prototile .
Talk abstract by Ethan Coven on a one-dimensional tiling problem on the
boundary between
geometry and number theory, with connections to factorization of finite
cyclic groups.
See also Coven's paper with Aaron Meyerowitz,
 Tiling the integers
with translates of one finite set .
 
    Tilings .
Lecture notes from the Clay Math Institute, by Richard Stanley and
Federico Ardila, discussing polyomino tilings, coloring arguments for
proving the nonexistence of tilings, counting how many tilings a region
has, the arctic circle theorem for domino tilings of diamonds,
tiling the unit square with unit-fraction rectangles, symmetry groups,
penrose tilings, and more.  In only 21 pages, including the annotated
bibliography.  A nice but necessarily concise introduction to the subject.
(Via  Andrei Lopatenko .)
 
    Tilings and visual symmetry , Xah Lee.
 
    Transformational geometry .
Leslie Howe illustrates various plane symmetry types with Cabri animations.
 
    The uniform net
(10,3)-a .  An interesting crystal structure formed by packing square
and octagonal helices.
 
    Vision test .
Can you spot the hidden glide reflection symmetry lurking in
(the infinite continuation of) this pattern?
 
    
 
    Wallpaper groups . An illustrated guide to the 17 planar symmetry patterns.
See also  Xah Lee's wallpaper group page .
 
    Wallpaper
patterns , R. Morris.
Kaleidoscope-like Java applet for making and transforming symmetric
tilings out of uploaded photos.
 
    A word problem .
Group theoretic mathematics for determining whether a polygon formed out
of hexagons can be dissected into three-hexagon triangles,
or whether a polygon formed out of squares can be dissected
into restricted-orientation triominoes.
   
   
     
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  Send email  if you
know of an appropriate page not listed here.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 