 Project SHERLOCK @ UCI:  Data Cleaning Datasets, Entity Resolution Datasets.<body>





     
        

                 

                 
                     Main Page   News   People   Publications   Datasets   Software   Internal   
                    

         
                  



 
    Useful Data Cleaning Data Sets and Entity Resolution Data Sets 
   arXive hep-th : KDD Cup 2003 publication dataset: hep-th portion of arXive. Fully labeled, 29.5K unique papers, 13K unique authors 
      CiteSeer : a collection of research publications 
      Cora : a citation dataset from RIDDLE data repository 
	  Cora : a citation dataset from Andrew McCallum's data repository 
      DBLP : a collection of bibliographic entries 
      DMOZ ontology : a large downloadable ontology 
      Enron Email Dataset : a dataset of Enron emails 
      FEBRL Database : Freely Extensible Biomedical Record Linkage 
      Freedb CD Dataset : Info on various CDs 
      IMDb : a collection of movie-related entries 
      Leipzig DB Group Datasets : publication data and product table data 
      PubMed/MEDLINE : over 20 Million bibliographic entries for biomedical literature  see  PubMed online  for detail. Need to license it from the NIH. Texts of some publications are here:   PMC . 
      RIDDLE Repository : various data cleaning-related datasets 
      SPOKE Challenge : a collection of labeled webpages for SPOKE Challenge 
      Stanford Movie Dataset : a collection of movie-related entries 
      UC Irvine Machine Learning Repository : a collection of various ML datasets 
      UIS Database Generator : generates synthetic names/addresses by adding errors into records 
      U.S. Census Names : frequently occurring first names 
and surnames from the 1990 Census 
      Web Disambiguation : a collection of labeled webpages used by McCallum et al. in WWW'05 
      WEPS Corpus : a collection of labeled webpages used by Artiles et al. in SIGIR'05 
      Wikilinks : Google's dataset of 11 Million webpages for cross-document entity resolution:  info . 
      Wiktionary : a downloadable free-content multilingual dictionary 
         © 2013 SHERLOCK @ UCI. All Rights Reserved.  

 
 
 
    </body> 