 WICS First General Meeting – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         
         
             

                            
                 WICS First General Meeting 
                          
                                
                                         

            
               WICS Meeting    by admin 

            
                        on 10/11/2012 

                                
                                
                                
		   
				   
			    
				   
			    
				   
			    

 Before our trip to Grace Hopper, WICS hosted its first general meeting.  We had a great turnout of about 40 people, with a much higher representation of women than previous years!  Following our presentation of this quarter’s events, we pulled out the card games, and for the next hour and a half our new members met each other, ate pizza, and played card games. 
 We briefly asked people about how they felt about WICS this year, and many were relieved to have a friendly and low-pressure group in ICS that they can relate to.  Many were able to dispel their fears that they would be isolated in ICS this year!  As a result our organization will be hosting more social events for women in ICS to mingle and approach each other in a much easier environment than in the classroom. 
 We’re looking forward to a busy and productive year! 
   Share this:        Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)        
 
	  Related  
 
                                  

                             
         
     

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 

	</body> 