 Jessica M. Utts Administrative Experience<body>  Return to Jessica Utts's Home Page   
  ADMINISTRATIVE EXPERIENCE   

  DIRECTOR, DAVIS HONORS CHALLENGE, UNIVERSITY HONORS PROGRAM   University of California, Davis, 2003 to 2008 
 Administrative responsibility for UC Davis's open application, campus-wide honors program. The Program included over 400 students at all 
undergraduate levels. Responsibilities also included faculty development for the faculty teaching in the program, and serving as campus 
representative for prestigious national and international scholarships (e.g. Rhodes and Marshall). 


  ASSOCIATE VICE PROVOST, UNIVERSITY OUTREACH   University of California, Davis, 1996 to 1998 
 Provided campus leadership for the development and coordination of outreach activities, linking the campus community with business, 
government and other external constituents. Reporting units include University Extension, Summer Sessions and the Pro Femina Research Consortium. 

  FACULTY ASSISTANT TO THE PROVOST   University of California, Davis, 1995 to 1996 
 Worked with Vice Provost M.R.C. Greenwood in the development of new outreach initiatives.
Major accomplishments included establishing a GIS-based website illustrating UC Davis outreach projects geographically and by subject matter,
and organizing a Science and Technology Summit for business, government and university leaders, with prominent speakers from these 
sectors including heads of government agencies, the California Lieutenant Governor and CEOs of some of the largest companies in the US. 

  TREASURER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   Institute of Mathematical Statistics, Hayward, CA, 1988 to 1994 
 Administrative and financial responsibility for an international professional organization that publishes four premier scientific journals 
and has an annual budget of over $1 million. During my term of service I guided the organization through major staff transitions, 
the establishment of a new journal and the modernization of its business practices. I also established a gift membership program for colleagues 
in developing countries and a travel award program for new researchers. 

  DIRECTOR, STATISTICAL LABORATORY   University of California, Davis, 1988 to 1993 
 Administrative responsibility for a campus service and recharge unit that provides statistical advice to students, faculty and external clients. 
Included supervision of three permanent employees as well as several part-time student consultants. 

  CHAIR, WOMEN'S STUDIES PROGRAM   University of California, Davis, 1985 to 1987 
 Provided direction and oversight for an expanding interdisciplinary academic program, including course development, 
hiring of temporary faculty and supervision of staff. </body> 