 Graduate Student Profiles @ the Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>

 This site will look much better in a browser that supports  web standards , but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device. 
   

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










      Bren school home  &gt;  Graduate  &gt;  Profiles  
    
 Graduate Student Profiles 
 
 




  

                  

                 Alexander Behm 
                Ph.D. in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 John Brock 
                1st-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Ellie Harmon 
                4th-year Ph.D. student in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Sun Young Park 
                4th-year Ph.D. student in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Arjun Satish 
                5th-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Nicole Miya Sylvester 
                2nd-year Ph.D. student in Information &amp; Computer Science  
              

                  

                 Tianbing Xu 
                4th-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science  
                

















 


 

       2012-13 Kling Memorial Fellow 
 


 

        Ellie Harmon 
                     Ellie Harmon has received the Rob Kling Memorial Fellowship, named for the late professor Rob Kling, who made prolific contributions to the field of social informatics. Kling spent more than 20 years at UC Irvine (1973–1996), where he studied the role of computers in society, organizations and public policy. He gave rise to what came to be known as the "Irvine School," the intellectual perspective on information technology in complex organizational settings that was born at UCI. Over his lifetime he held faculty positions at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, UC Irvine and Indiana University, Bloomington.  
 


 

       Where are you from? 
                          I was born in Georgia, and grew up in a small town, Flowery Branch, about an hour northeast of Atlanta. I have also lived in Atlanta, GA; Santa Fe, NM; and San Francisco, CA.  What are your previous academic degrees? 
                          B.S. in computer science with minors in cognitive science and sociology from Georgia Tech and M.S. in human-computer interaction, also from Georgia Tech.  Why did you choose to pursue graduate studies at UCI? 
                          I chose to pursue my Ph.D. in informatics at UCI because of its reputation as an interdisciplinary department. Within a single department, we have top researchers in areas that, at other schools, might be segregated into various departments like, "information studies," "human-computer interaction," "science and technology studies," or "organization studies." In addition to this rich variety of perspectives within the department, many students and faculty have good working relationships with students and faculty across other campus departments. This makes UC Irvine a unique place to study the interweaving of information technologies with contemporary life.  What is your current research focus? 
                          My research focuses on the everyday experience of mobile communication technologies. I conduct ethnographic fieldwork that investigates how people connect to and disconnect from each other and technology in new ways. I am interested in how ideals of nature, time and the human self are important to questions about connection and disconnection — and how those same ideals are themselves redefined in the context of contemporary mobile technologies, which are becoming ordinary and intimate objects.  What are your future plans? 
                          I plan to stay in academia.  How do you like to spend your time outside of school? 
                          I am passionate about spending time outdoors. I thru-hiked the 2,100-mile Appalachian Trail in 2008, and I plan to thru-hike the 2,600-mile Pacific Crest Trail this year.  Any words of wisdom for prospective grad students looking to study at UCI? 
                          Contact current grad students and talk to them about what it’s like here. 
 


 



  




 
 
 
   Quick Links   
                        
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 

</body> 