 Mining Scientific and Engineering Datasets<body>

 
 
  Eighth Workshop on Mining Scientific and Engineering Datasets  
 
 

      
     http://www-aig.jpl.nasa.gov/~mburl/MSD05/   
     
    
   Saturday, Apr 23, 2005  
  to be held at the
 Sutton Place Hotel
  Newport Beach, CA
  in conjunction with the
       Fifth SIAM
International Conference on Data Mining (SDM 2005)         
 
 
  
 AFTERNOON KEYNOTE ADDRESS 
 Image understanding and modeling for biological development: 
the case of a plant shoot meristem 

 Professor Eric Mjolsness 
 Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics, and 
Department of Computer Science 
University of California, Irvine  http://www.ics.uci.edu/~emj  
 

 Abstract 
 
The Computable Plant project is a systematic effort to advance the
understanding of the shoot apical meristem (SAM) of Arabidopsis thaliana
through imaging and computational modeling of developmental processes.
Interesting and generic problems arise within this computational approach.
 For example, to quantify the growth of the SAM and its cell lineages
requires detecting and tracking multiple features in 3D image sequences,
and finding a smoothed global velocity field due to growth; we approach
this problem through nonlinear optimization.  Also, fitting the resulting
data to dynamical models requires a flexible modeling framework for
coupled mechanical and regulatory networks.  For these problems we develop
a mathematical foundation based on the use of a ?dynamical grammar?
capable of representing discrete-time events such as cell division that
change the number of objects and their relationships, as well as
continuous-time processes arising from regulatory networks and mechanical
interactions.  The resulting algorithms are being used to assist
experimental research on mechanisms of meristem maintenance and
phyllotaxis.
 

 
Joint work with Tigran Bacarian, Pierre Baldi, Ashish Bhan, Victoria Gor,
Marcus Heisler, Henrik Jönsson, Elliot Meyerowitz, Venu Reddy, Alex
Sadovsky, Bruce Shapiro. Further information available at
 http://www.computableplant.org . 


 Biography 
 
Eric Mjolsness received an undergraduate degree from Washington University
in St. Louis in 1980 and a PhD in physics from the California Institute of
Technology in 1986. He has served on the faculties of Yale University, the
University of California San Diego, the California Institute of
Technology, and the University of California Irvine where he is currently
a member of the Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics and the Computer
Science Department.  He has also served as a leading member of the Machine
Learning Systems Group at the Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  His
research interests are largely connected with the construction of
scientific inference systems, using techniques from machine learning,
pattern recognition, nonlinear optimization, statistical physics and other
mathematical disciplines to further research into computational biology
and other sciences.
 

 </body> 