 jessica utts spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Jessica Utts spotlight 

 
 

  Supernatural conclusions  </strong>
 
 
   Jessica Utts
 
 
 If members of the scientific community once debated the existence of psychic abilities, Jessica Utts’ research has helped put the argument to rest.  
 By applying statistical analyses to paranormal phenomena such as extra-sensory perception, telepathy and precognition, Utts has shown that paranormal phenomena occur more often than can be explained by random chance, and she has created a basis for moving on to a deeper understanding of such phenomena. 
 “Parapsychology gives us a clue into what we don’t know about physics – time and space as well as human consciousness and the brain,” says Utts, a statistics professor who joined UC Irvine’s information and computer science faculty in July. 
 Utts was first exposed to parapsychology in 1984 while serving as a statistical consultant for a team researching the subject for the government. 
 “I got more and more interested as I started seeing results that seemed to indicate something was going on,” Utts says. 
 She gained recognition in 1995 when she prepared a report for Congress and the American Institutes on Research on the formerly classified Stargate Project that sought to determine whether psychic functioning or “remote viewing” could be used to gather intelligence. 
 Utts’ report concluded that some psychic functioning was being exhibited and that more study should be done to make it as useful as possible. A parallel investigation by another researcher came to the opposite conclusion and the project, funded by the Central Intelligence Agency and Defense Intelligence Agency, was discontinued. 
 Utts has since continued her research to statistically demonstrate that some people have psychic abilities – that they can, for example, correctly identify a hidden picture more often than one would expect by chance alone. 
 “My guess is everyone has some psychic ability – much like everyone has some degree of musical talent,” she says. “Why can some do it better than others? I have no idea any more than I have an idea of why some are naturally better musicians.” 
 Until recently, Utt says, scientific researchers have described psychic insights as something sent and received. Telepathy and ESP, for example, are defined as the ability to pick up thoughts transmitted through the air, much like radio waves. 
 Utts’ research suggests something beyond send-and-receive abilities. She has statistically verified the existence of precognition – a phenomenon where the subject accurately identifies an image or idea even before the tester or a computer has selected the target. 
 “The fact that some people can predict targets before they are even chosen is something different,” she says. “This tells me we don’t fully understand the concept of time. These areas hold huge mysteries we still need to solve.”   — Jason Mednick, University Communications  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 