 Geometry in Action: Mesh Generation<body>

 
 
  
 
  
  Mesh Generation 

A key step of the finite element method for numerical computation
is mesh generation.  One is given a domain
(such as a polygon or polyhedron; more realistic versions of the problem
allow curved domain boundaries) and must partition it into
simple "elements" meeting in well-defined ways.
There should be few elements, but some portions
of the domain may need small elements so that the computation
is more accurate there.  All elements should be "well shaped"
(which means different things in different situations, but generally
involves bounds on the angles or aspect ratio of the elements).
One distinguishes "structured" and "unstructured" meshes by
the way the elements meet; a structured mesh is one
in which the elements have the topology of a regular grid.
Structured meshes are typically easier to compute with
(saving a constant factor in runtime) but may require more elements
or worse-shaped elements.  Unstructured meshes are often
computed using  quadtrees , or
by  Delaunay triangulation 
of point sets; however there are quite varied approaches
for selecting the points to be triangulated.

 There has now been considerable theoretical work in the geometry
community on these problems, complementing and building on practical
work in the numerical community.  There is also beginning to be a
convergence of these communities, in which theoretical work is fed back
in to practical mesh generation applications.  Theoretically, the
preferred type of mesh is the triangulation or simplicial complex, but
in mesh generation practice quadrilaterals or higher dimensional cubical
element shapes are preferred (both because fewer are typically needed
and because they have better numerical properties).  Remaining problem areas
in the theory of meshing
include triangulations in dimensions higher
than two, meshes with cubical elements, mesh smoothing,
mesh decimation and multigrid methods,
and data structures for efficient implementation of meshing algorithms.
There has also been some theoretical work on using geometry to partition
meshes by finding small separators of their underlying graphs.

  The list of pointers here is not intended to be comprehensive;
see Robert Schneiders' page for more pointers.
I have tried to include a mixture of research groups working
on theoretical problems with commercial packages and the issues they raise.
      BibTeX references from "Mesh
generation and optimal triangulation"  (survey by M. Bern and D.
Eppstein in "Computing and Euclidean
Geometry", World Scientific 1992 &amp; 1995).
 
    Computational Topology .
Survey paper by Dey, Edelsbrunner, and Guha, presented at the conference
"Computational Geometry -- Ten Years After".  Includes descriptions of
applications in image processing, cartography, graphics, solid modeling,
mesh generation, and molecular modeling.
 
    The
CUBIT hexahedral mesh generation project  at Sandia Labs
(and  another web
page  about CUBIT).
 
    Darren Knight Gallery . Mesh generation meets architectural design.
 
    A Delaunay refinement algorithm for quality
2-dimensional mesh generation , Jim Ruppert, NASA.
 
    Detail removal .
 
The Queen's U. finite element group  uses medial axes to simplify parts
to be simulated while maintaining as little error as possible,
as part of their
 QUB  mesh
generation system.
Presumably similar ideas would also apply to model simplification
for virtual reality.
 
    Dynamic
Scene Radiosity .
Robert Grzeszczuk, U. Chicago, maintains a triangulated mesh
dynamically, keeping track of the topological changes in
the pattern of shadow crossings in an image.
 
    Finite Elements Corner .
 
    From
computational geometry to computational physics , M. Pellegrini,
ERCIM News, Apr. 1996.
Marco describes his recent work on algorithms for form
factors, radiosity, and electrostatics, using integral geometry and
Monte Carlo methods in place
of the traditional finite element meshing approach.
 
   " Geometric approaches to mesh generation ",
by Christoph Hoffman of Purdue,
argues for a tighter coupling between mesh generation
and computer aided design.
 
    The Geometry
Laboratory  at NASA's Langley Research Ctr.
 

    Graph partitioning .
Geometric methods for finding graph separators.
Lecture notes from CS267, UC Berkeley, on high performance computing.
This problem has applications in scientific computation,
and, apparently, in DNA sequencing.
 
    Grid Evolution for Oxidation Simulation .  Sahul, McKenna, and Dutton (in this paper from the NUPAD V Conf.) use adaptive quadtree meshes to simulate semiconductor oxidation.
 
    Grid generation
thrust , Mississippi State U.
 
    Paul Heckbert's
collection of mesh generation links .
 
    Hexahedral subdivision .
William Thurston characterizes the polyhedra which
can be subdivided into topological cubes meeting face-to-face.
The same characterization was independently rediscovered
by Scott Mitchell of Sandia Labs.  For related work,
see
" A
Characterization of the Quadrilateral Meshes of a Surface which
admit a Compatible Hexahedral Mesh of the Enclosed Volume ",
Scott Mitchell, 5th MSI Worksh. Comp. Geom.,
and my paper,
" Linear Complexity Hexahedral Mesh Generation ".
 
    HEXAR 
(Cray Research) is an automatic unstructured hexahedral mesh generation package
that starts working directly from
computer-aided design (CAD) surface data.
 
    IMA Workshop: Grid Generation and Adaptive Algorithms , April 1997.
 
    Information on finite element mesh generation ,
Robert Schneiders, Aachen; very comprehensive.
 
    International
Society of Grid Generation .
 
    LCTS project ,
package for quality mesh generation and finite elements,
Roman Galkin.
 
    Mesh generation
bibliography  with emphasis on anisotropic unstructured triangular
meshes, P. Heckbert and F. Bossen.
 
    Mesh
generation mailing list , Steve Owen, CMU.
 
    Mesh generation
for bioelectric field problems ,
Oak Ridge Nat. Lab.
Discusses general mesh generation techniques as well as some
of the problems arising in this application
(such as anisotropy of some tissue types).
 
    Mesh
Generation  research by Paul Chew at Cornell
 
    Mesh
generation software 
from  
Nina Amenta's CG software directory .
 
    Mesh
generation using relaxation in warped space , P. Heckbert and
F. Bossen.
 
    Mesh
Generators , from
 Ian MacPhedran's hypertext version of Roger Young's finite element resources catalog .
 
    Mesh Reduction , Shastra project, U. Texas.
 
    Meshing Research Corner , Steve Owen, CMU.
 
   Annual Meshing Roundtables: 
4th Roundtable, Sandia, 1995:
 conf.
info.  and
 papers .  5th Roundtable , Pittsburgh, October 1996.  6th Roundtable , Park City, Utah, October 1997.  7th Roundtable , Detroit, October 1998.  8th Roundtable , Lake Tahoe, October 1999.  9th Roundtable , New Orleans, October 2000.
 
    My own research  on mesh
generation and optimal triangulation.
 
    Parallel octree mesh generation project ,
Ralf Diekmann, Paderborn.
 
    QMG , a quadtree-based 2d and 3d mesh generator by Steve Vavasis of Cornell.
 
   Symposia on Trends in Unstructured Mesh Generation:  1st Symp.,
Joint ASME/ASCE/SES Summer Meeting, Northwestern U., June 1997   2nd Symp.,
5th US Nat. Cong. Comp. Mech., Boulder, August 1999 
 
    Triangle ,
an incremental Delaunay-based 2d mesh generator
by Jonathan Shewchuk of CMU,
part of the  
CMU Archimedes project  for unstructured finite element computation.
 
    Triangulation and
mesh generation  open problems, web pages, and usenet postings, from the
 Geometry Junkyard .
 
    US
Patent 4941114  covers an ear-cutting method of constructing
unstructured triangular meshes.  Another meshing patent,
 5214752 ,
describes an incremental point placement algorithm very similar to the
provably-good meshing method of one of its inventors (Jim Ruppert).
 Patent
5440674  appears to be based on a very similar incremental method of Chew.
Meshing patents
 4797842  and
 4933889 
are based on medial axes.
 Patent
5315537  covers a wavefront-based quadrilateral meshing system.
 Patent
5345490  covers quadtree- and octree-based meshing.
 Patent
553206  describes methods of merging tetrahedra to simplify meshes.
 
     
Part of
 Geometry in Action ,
a collection of applications of computational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 