 Publications page<body>


   
    Selected Publications  

   
Conference Papers
 


  
  
 "Integrated I-cache Way Predictor and Branch Target Buffer to Reduce Energy Consumption" ,  
W. Tang, A. Veidenbaum, A.Nicolau, R. Gupta,
 
International Symposium on High Performance Computing, May 2002.
 
  
  
 
 "Profile-based Dynamic Voltage Scheduling using Program Checkpoints in the COPPER Framework" ,
 
Ana Azevedo, Ilya Issenin, Radu Cornea Rajesh Gupta, Nikil Dutt, Alex Veidenbaum, Alex Nicolau,
 
Design Automation and Test in Europe, March 2002.
 
  

 
 "An Efficient Compiler Technique for Code Size Reduction using Reduced Bit-width ISAs" ,
 
Ashok Halambi, Aviral Shrivastava, Partha Biswas, Nikil Dutt, Alex Nicolau,
 
Design Automation and Test in Europe, March 2002.
 
  

 
 "Memory System Connectivity Exploration" ,
 
Peter Grun, Nikil Dutt, Alex Nicolau,
 
Design Automation and Test in Europe, March 2002.
 
  

 
 "Automatic Verification of In-Order Execution in Microprocessors with Fragmented Pipelines and Multicycle Functional Units" ,
 
Prabhat Mishra, Hiroyuki Tomiyama, Nikil Dutt, and Alex Nicolau,
 
Design Automation and Test in Europe, March 2002.
 
  
    
 
 "Power Savings in Embedded Processors through Decode Filter Cache" ,
 
W. Tang, R. Gupta, A. Nicolau,
 
Design Automation &amp; Test in Europe, March 2002.
 
  

 
 "Automatic Modeling and Validation of Pipeline Specifications driven by an Architecture Description Language" ,
 
Prabhat Mishra, Hiroyuki Tomiyama, Ashok Halambi, Peter Grun, Nikil Dutt, and Alex Nicolau,
 
7th Asia and South Pacific Design Automation Conference &amp; 15th International Conference on VLSI Design, January 2002.
 
  

 
 "Automatic Validation of Pipeline Specifications" ,
 
Prabhat Mishra, Nikil Dutt, and Alex Nicolau,
 
Sixth IEEE International Workshop on High Level Design Validation and Test, November 2001.
 
  

 
 "Architectural Adaptation for Power and Performance" ,  
Weiyu Tang, Alexander V. Veidenbaum, Rajesh Gupta,
 
International Conference on ASIC, Oct. 2001.
 
  
    
 
 "Architecture Description Language driven Design Space Exploration in the Presence of CoProcessors" ,
 
Prabhat Mishra, Frederic Rousseau, Nikil Dutt, and Alex Nicolau,
 
Tenth Workshop on Synthesis And System Integration of Mixed Technologies, October 2001.
 
  

 
  "Design of a Predictive Filter Cache for Energy Savings in High Performance Processor Architectures" ,
 
Weiyu Tang, Rajesh Gupta, Alexandru Nicolau,
 
International Conference on Computer Design, Sep. 2001.
 
  
    
 
 "APEX: Access Pattern based Memory Architecture Exploration" ,
 
Peter Grun, Nikil Dutt, Alex Nicolau,
 
14th International Symposium on System Synthesis, September 2001.
 
  

 
 "Functional Abstraction driven Design Space Exploration of Heterogeneous Programmable Architectures" ,
 
Prabhat Mishra, Nikil Dutt, and Alex Nicolau,
 
14th International Symposium on System Synthesis, October 2001.
 
  

 
 "Low Power Address Encoding using Self-Organizing Lists" ,
 
Mahesh Mamidipaka, Dan Hirschberg, Nikil Dutt,
 
International Symposium on Low Power Electronics and Design, August 2001.
 
  

 
  "Simultaneous Way-footprint Prediction and Branch Prediction for Energy Savings in Set-associative Instruction Caches" ,
 
Weiyu Tang, Rajesh Gupta, Alexandru Nicolau, Alexander V. Veidenbaum,
 
IEEE Workshop on Power Management for Real-Time and Embedded Systems, May 2001.
 
  
    
 
  "Architectural and Compiler Strategies for Dynamic Power Management in the COPPER Project" ,
 
Ana Azevedo, Radu Cornea, Ilya Issenin, Rajesh Gupta, Nikil Dutt, Alex Nicolau, Alex Veidenbaum,
 
IWIA 2001 International Workshop on Innovative Architecture, Maui, Haiwai, January, 2001.
 
  

 
  "Energy Efficient Instruction Cache for Wide-issue Processors" ,
 
A. Badulescu, A. Veidenbaum,
 
IWIA 2001 International Workshop on Innovative Architecture, Maui, Haiwai, January 2001.
 
  
    

   
Technical Reports
 

  
"Profile-based Dynamic Voltage Scheduling using Program Checkpoints in the COPPER Framework",
 
Ana Azevedo, Ilya Issenin, Radu Cornea Rajesh Gupta, Nikil Dutt, Alex Veidenbaum, Alex Nicolau.
 
  

   </body> 