 UCI Law  

   Skip to Main  
  Skip to Nav  
  
   UCI Law  
  
 
 
   ☰ Menu  
      Search  
  Quick Links  
    About    Overview    Office of the Dean    Our History    Public Service    Our Community    Accreditation    Administration    Our Facilities    ABA Required Disclosures    Maps and Directions    Accolades for UCI Law       J.D. Admission &amp; Aid    Overview    Why UCI Law is Special    Apply    Class Profile    Tuition &amp; Aid    Admitted Students    Visit the Law School    Recruitment Events    FAQs    Dates and Deadlines    Viewbook    Publications of Interest       Academics    Overview    Advising    Academic Calendars    Academic Skills Program    Centers &amp; Institutes    Curriculum     Clinics &amp; Real Life Learning    Interdisciplinary Studies    J.D. Requirements    Professional Skills Program    Registrar       Our Faculty    Overview    Faculty Scholarship    Full-Time Faculty    Librarians    Affiliated Faculty    Visiting Faculty    Lecturers    Chancellor's Professors    Adjunct Faculty      Campus Life    Overview    Student Organizations    Mentoring    Housing Information      Local Scene    University Resources    Miscellaneous Services    Awards       Careers    Overview    For Students &amp; Alumni    For Employers    Policies      Clinics    Overview    Appellate Litigation    Civil Rights Litigation     Community &amp; Economic Development    Criminal Justice    Domestic Violence    Environmental Law     Fair Employment &amp; Housing    Immigrant Rights    Intellectual Property, Arts, and Technology    International Human Rights    International Justice     Reproductive Justice    Veterans       LL.M.    Program Overview    Why LL.M. at UCI Law?    Message from the Academic Director    Curriculum    Apply    Tuition and Aid    Admitted Students    Faculty    Career Services    Housing    International Students    U.S. Bar Requirements    FAQs    LL.M. Brochure (PDF)    LL.M. in International Taxation        
  Search UCI Law School   
 
    Alumni  
  Podcast  
  News  
  Law Library  
  Calendar  
  Giving  
  
 

 

    Home    UCI Law</strong>        
  

          Faculty Ranked 6th in the Nation  The latest study measuring scholarly impact of law faculties ranks UCI Law 6th in the nation. UCI Law has ranked in the Top 10 since opening in 2009.   Read more &gt;</strong>          The Trump Presidency &amp; the Law  UCI Law faculty are leading analysts on the issues that have arisen under the new administration.   Read more here &gt; </strong>         Ranked 3rd in Community Service  A recent survey found that UCI Law students contributed 71,407 hours of community service in the 2015-16 academic year, through the pro bono program, clinics, externships and other community-focused programs.  Read more &gt;          Apply Now for Fall 2017 Admission  Applications now available for  J.D.</strong> and  LL.M.</strong> degree programs.   J.D. application details here &gt; </strong>   LL.M. application details here &gt;</strong>       Featured Events View All   Feb. 10    Race of the Races: Privilege, Exclusion and Inequality among People of Color in the Law   Feb. 13   CLEANR: The Humane Economy: Animal Rights, Seaworld, and the Future?   Feb. 13   Current Issues in Tax Law and Policy: Elite Tax Professionals Behaving Badly   Feb. 14   Prof. Michele Goodwin on “Policing Women’s Reproduction”    Latest News View All   Feb. 9   Dean Chemerinsky and UCI Chancellor Gillman write: Berkeley, Milo Yiannopoulos and the lessons of free speech    Feb. 9   Prof. Fisk: Trump's executive order could increase the number of U.S. jobs being done overseas   Feb. 4   Prof. Litman: We'll defend govt. workers who ignore Trump's immigration order     

 
 Public Service View all     UCI Law Presents Annual Pro Bono Awards   Two leaders with UCI Law’s Clemency Project team — attorney Annee Della Donna and UCI Prof. Keramet Reiter — received this year’s UCI Law Community Pro Bono Awards for their work with UCI Law students in helping the underserved. The awards allow UCI Law to honor those who help advance the school’s deep commitment to public service and experiential learning.   Read more &gt; </strong>  Faculty Scholarship View all     New Books by UCI Law Faculty: Spring 2017     Our prolific faculty members have recently published a number of books and more will be out soon. The UCI Law faculty includes three reporters for American Law Institute Restatement projects: Prof. R. Anthony Reese, ALI Associate Reporter, Restatement of the Law, Copyright; Prof. Kenneth W. Simons, ALI Reporter, Restatement Third of Torts: Intentional Torts to Persons; and Prof. Christopher A. Whytock, ALI Reporter, Restatement of the Law Third, Conflict of Laws and ALI Adviser, Restatement of the Law Fourth, The Foreign Relations Law of the U.S.   See full list of new books &gt;</strong>   Community View all     Alumna Denisha McKenzie is president-elect of Thurgood Marshall Bar Association      Denisha McKenzie ’12 is the president-elect of the Newport Beach-based Thurgood Marshall Bar Association. The association is an affiliate of the Orange County Bar Association, with a mission of connecting, supporting and increasing the African-American legal community in Orange County. McKenzie is a labor and employment attorney with Carothers DiSante &amp; Freudenberger LLP’s Irvine office.   Read more &gt;</strong>   Alumni View all     First Annual UCI Law Alumni Pro Bono Day Feb. 25     A Fresh Start Expungement Clinic willl take place Saturday, Feb. 25 in Compton, CA, offering alumni an opportunity to assist litigants expunge criminal records, and prepare Prop 47 and Prop 64 applications. 30 to 40 alumni volunteers are needed. Volunteers are required to attend one of two evening training sessions: Feb. 16 at UCI Law, or Feb. 22 at Public Counsel in Los Angeles. Even if you have previously been trained on expungements, you must attend a training to learn about clinic logistics.  Deadline to register is Friday, Feb. 3</strong>.   Details and registration here &gt; </strong>  
  UC Irvine School of Law is a visionary law school focused on training talented and passionate lawyers and driven by professional excellence, intellectual rigor, and a commitment to enrich our communities through public service. UCI Law is a collegial environment, and our faculty comprises accomplished, nationally ranked thought leaders from around the country with a broad range of expertise.   

 

  ©2016  University of California, Irvine School of Law     401 E. Peltason Drive, Suite 1000,   Irvine ,  CA   92697-8000  USA   33.64610  -117.83530    (949) 824-0066        Jobs at UCI Law  
  Privacy Notice  
  Copyright Inquiries  
       Facebook        Twitter        Instagram        LinkedIn        YouTube        iTunes        SoundCloud        Google Plus        Flickr         Current Students    Information For Current Students   Go to Student Portal    Quick Links:    LawNet Mail  
  LawReg  
  MyCourses  
  CourseCatalog  
  My Financial Aid  
  ZotAccount  
  Symplicity  
  PSLawNet  
  Events  
  Student Directory  
  Law Library  
  Student Access  
  Student Services  
  IT Services  
     Faculty    Information For Faculty   Go to Faculty Portal    Quick Links:    Outlook Web Mail (email)  
  Email IT helpdesk  
  Course Grades/Rosters  
  MyCourses  
  Course Catalog  
  Academic Calendar  
  Signature Events  
  Full Calendar  
  UCI ZotPortal  
  Human Resources  
     Staff    Information For Staff   Go to Staff Portal    Quick Links:    Outlook Web Mail (email)  
  Email IT helpdesk  
  Signature Events  
  Academic Calendar  
  Full Calendar  
  UCI ZotPortal  
  Human Resources  
  Internal Requisition  
  Event Proposal System  
  Room Reservation Calendar  
     Alumni    Information For Alumni   Quick Links:    About UCI Law  
  Maps and Directions  
  Faculty News  
  Student News  
  UCI Law in the News  
  Signature Events  
  Distinguished Lectures  
     Public    Information For the Public   Quick Links:    About UCI Law  
  Maps and Directions  
  UCI Law in the News  
  Signature Events  
  Distinguished Lectures  
  Jobs at UCI Law  
     UCI Irvine   </body> 