 Yun Huang@UCI<body>
 
	 
		 	
			 Yun Huang 
			
 			    
 			  Information Systems Group  
			  Bren School of ICS   
			   UC Irvine  
		 
		
		 	
			  
	 
	 
		   Home  			
			  Research  
			  Publications  
			  Professional Activities  
			  Teaching and Mentoring  
		  
	
	 
		 			
			   Teach 
					   Undergraduate  
						  Graduate  
					  
				  Mentoring 	
					   Graduate Course Projects  
						  Master Thesis  
					  									
			  
	 
	
	 
		 Classes (Taught and Under Development) 
		 Undergraduate Course - CS122A: Introduction to Data Management   (taught in Winter Quarter 2009)  	
		  This course provides students with an introduction to the design of databases and the use of database management systems for applications. We will cover the entity relationship (E/R) approach to database design. We will cover the relational data model, mapping E/R designs to relations, relational design theory, abstract query language such as relational algebra, and programming in SQL. Students will get exposure to how relational database management systems are used to implement a database. Time permitting, we will also consider advanced database management features such as object-oriented and object-relational database systems. This course is aimed at database design and use of database management systems in implementing database applications.   

		
		 Graduate Course - Mobile Computing Systems and Applications   (current under development) 	
		  This course covers topics in mobile computing that are useful for implementation of mobile systems and development of mobile applications. The goal is to provide students an extensive overview of state-of-the-art technologies and ongoing work that allow mobile systems to support a wide spectrum of mobile applications. The material presented in this course are collected mainly from the research literature. This course is designed for graduate students with some knowledge in mobile and wireless networks and distributed systems. Students will carry out in-depth independent research projects of their own interests. 
		   
		
		 Graduate Students (Mentored) 
		 For Graduate Course Projects (2002 - 2008) 		
		  
		    Ty Chau,
		    Luca Clementi,		    
		    Sevin Fide,
		    Malli Machupalli, 
		    Michael Madhukalya, 
		    Daniel Massaguer,
		    Luis Ortiz,
		    Brent Stearn, 
		    Alan Tran, 
		    Srinivas Vadlamani, 
		    Bo Xing,
		    Xing Zheng,
		 
		 For Master Thesis (2005-2006) 	
		 
		    Humeyra T. Altintas 
		 
		  ^ top   
				
	 



	 
		 Last Updated on Dec 20, 2008 
	 

	 
	  
	
</body> 