 rosario cammarota spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Rosario Cammarota spotlight 

 
 

  Once in a Lifetime Opportunity </strong>
 
 
  Rosario Cammarota
 
 
 Rosario Cammarota (a.k.a. Roio) was looking for a Master's program in information and computer science with a focus on embedded systems, but he wanted to stay in his hometown of Naples, Italy and continue to work full time at the local start-up he joined. 
 When he saw an advertisement for UC Irvine’s  Master’s Program in Information and Computer Science with a Concentration in Embedded Systems , he knew he had found the program he was looking for. 
 “The attractive features of the program were that it was held partially in Italy and partially in the United States and also gave me the opportunity to continue working for my company,” Cammarota said. 
 The unique program provides students the opportunity to study for two five-week sessions in the United States at UC Irvine during the summer and for three quarters at the  Istituto di Cibernetica Eduardo Caianiello  in Naples, Italy. 
 “For Italian students this is a once in a lifetime opportunity,” Cammarota said. “Pursuing a Master’s program in the United States may seem expensive at first, but if you compare the level of the education with the money you pay, then you’ll realize that to study here is a very good investment.  In the United States there are more opportunities for improving your future.” 
 In addition to courses, students work on embedded system research projects as part of their thesis and can obtain a Master’s degree in as little as 15 months. 
 
 Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.
 
 Cammarota is doing his research thesis on performance analysis on modern microprocessors evaluations. Numbers that can give directions in developing improvements on the state of the art of modern microprocessors and/or compilers are important because they give directions for doing things better and better. 
 The research attempts to answer questions he first asked while doing an undergraduate thesis at the University of Naples “Federico II”. Questions like how do you do things faster while at the same time maintaining a well organized source code and which is the more appropriate system (architectures, compilers, operating systems, programming models) in order to solve electromagnetic problems efficiently. 
 After graduating in 2004 with a degree in electronic engineering, Cammarota wanted to continue his research and after winning a research grant, he began working with Professor Mario Mango Furnari on networking and distributed systems research at the Cibernetics Institute “E. Caianillo” of the National Council for Research in Naples. 
 Then he started working for a start-up company from Cibernetics Institute “E. Caianillo” of the National Council for Research in Naples. He believed pursuing a Master’s degree was the next step in both his education and career and would definitely recommend the program for students interested in learning more about embedded systems. 
 “If you are interested in emerging design and co-design techniques for the future embedded systems; and if you want a truly multidisciplinary program at the border of engineering and computer science, then you would probably do very well in this Master’s program,” Cammarota said. “So come on. This program is what you are looking for.” 
  SMOOTH TRANSITION</strong> 
 The transition to life in the United States was very smooth for Cammarota, thanks in part to the Bren School advisors and staff. 
 “To live in the United States as a UC Irvine student is pretty easy and comfortable,” Cammarota said. “Almost all the people I’ve met have been cordial and have made me feel like I was at home.” 
 But Cammarota warns that the transition may not be as easy for non-Italian students when they go to Italy. Students should try and learn a bit of Italian before going. 
 “Life in Italy - and Naples in particular - might be quite difficult without a proper tutor,” Cammarota said. “The main problem is related to the language, because very few people speak English in Naples, and the people that do are not employed in the offices, i.e. in the places where international students need to go for their accommodations.” 
 The growing pains are worth it, though, since students will get to experience the wonders of Naples and the surrounding region. 
 “To live in Naples for a while is a good opportunity to enjoy all the culture and beauty in and around it,” Cammarota said. “It’s a really nice city with a lot of culture, perhaps more than other places in the south of Italy.”  
  SUN AND SURF</strong> 
 Irvine lacks the splendor of Naples, but Cammarota finds the amenities at  Verano Place , one of the on campus graduate communities, more than amenable. 
 “The apartment is large and sunny, I feel really comfortable there,” Cammarota said. “My next door neighbors are really kind and polite and everything around the apartment is green. I really love it.” 
 Despite being a world away, Cammarota doesn’t miss his family and friends too much and talks regularly with them via the Internet. 
 In his spare time, Cammarota takes the bus from UC Irvine to Seal Beach to enjoy some fun in the sun. 
 “The idea that you can go to the beach not only during the summer, but all year-round, is really exciting,” Cammarota said. 
 He also enjoys reading about mathematicians and mathematics, takes a weekly Kyudo class and often goes to the Anteater Recreation Center, a 89,000 square foot facility that includes a 10,000 square foot weight room, aerobics and martial arts rooms, three court gymnasium with an elevated running track, a pool, rock climbing wall and three racquetball courts. 
 Cammarota will finish his final exams at the end of August and his research thesis by the end of this fall, but finishing the program may just lead him to another beginning. 
 “I saw joining this program as a sort of step up in my education and my career, and I strongly feel that my decision has been the right one,” Cammarota said. “I’ve decided to continue working in the embedded system research area and plan to continue at UC Irvine in the Ph.D. program.” 
  - Eric Kowalik  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 