 INF 133 Fall 2010: User Interaction Software<body>
 Informatics 133: User Interaction Software  
 Fall 2010-2011 
 Department of Informatics 
 Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  
 
    Home  |  Administrative Policies   |  Course Structure  |  Materials  |  Assignment Schedule   
 
 
    Assignment 05  :  
   Goal:  Goal make a mobile phone app that uses sensors </strong> 
   
      Option 1: The I'm-scared-of-this assignment-assignment:
          Build an application that plays 5 different sounds when the phone is put in 5 different orientations. 
           Demonstrate the system by video-capturing the system in operation on a real phone. 
           Turn-in a web-page URL with:
              The names of the people in your group and a description of the work they did  
                A video of the system working (target length 3 minutes)  
               A one page written explanation of the components of your system.  
               A link to the source code of your program.  
              
          
       Option 2: The I'm-awesome-and-Prof-Patterson-needs-to-know-it assignment:
           Build a text-input alternative to a keyboard that uses the phone's orientation  
           Turn-in a web-page URL with:
               The names of the people in your group and a description of the work they did  
               A one page written explanation of the components of your system.  
               A link to the source code of your program.  
              
           Make an appointment to demo your system to Prof. Patterson  
          
       Requirements for the system:
          It must run a Java program compiled in Eclipse and deployed on the Android platform. 
          
       Admin
          In a separate EEE quiz you will be required to independently grade the work of the other members of your group. This may have the effect of modifying their/your grade. 
           You may check out phones for 48 hours at a time to deploy your app.  
          
       Rough grading
          Group members all agreeing that you did more or less than your share might send your grade up or down a notch  
           To get an A:
              The program will be demonstrated on a real phone  
               The java program must respond to orientation in real-time and play sounds.  
               Demonstration must be compelling as presented in the video 
               Web-page must be complete  
              
           To get a B:
              The system might only work on a simulator  
               The system might have individual components that work but it doesn't work together 
              
           To get a C
              The video also fails to show anything happening 
               There are clear errors in the Java program  
              
          
      
 
</body> 