 Assessment Criteria for the Final Project<body>

  ICS 1C :
 Homework 4 
Guidelines and Assesment Criteria 

One document you may want to use as a model is
John December's 
 "New
Spiders Roam the Web" . Some of its good features:
   There are many links to other documents, and the anchor words are
     all well-integrated into the flow of the document.
   It uses HTML features such as italics, headings, and lists.
   The tone is serious but lively.
  
This article, however, is not quite long enough for this assignment.
You should aim for a length of 3 to 5 full pages of text.

 

While December's article is a bit short, the next example you might
want to consult is a bit long:
Bertrand Ibrahim's and Steve Franklin's 
 
Advanced Educational Uses of the World-Wide Web .
This paper is written in a more academic style than is December's;
it has an Abstract, Introduction, Conclusion, Footnotes, and
Bibliography. You can follow this format if you want to, but it's
a bit of over-kill for this assignment.

     

   Here are some criteria which will be used in assessing your work on
this assignment. 
    
 Spelling and Proofreading 
  
There should be no indication that
you wrote the document two hours before it was submitted, even if
that was the case.  A tip: at the  ea&gt;  prompt, enter 
 spell doc.html 
where  doc.html  is the name of your document.  All words not in the
dictionary will be listed.  There will be many false positives, but
all misspelled words will be listed as well.   Note : The
 spell 
command is  not</strong> a substitute for careful proofreading!

  
 Style and tone 
  
Your document should be thoughtful, serious and
lively.  Try to avoid cliches, hyperbole, unsupported opinions,
slang, jargon, and passive sentences.

  
 Take advantage of what HTML has to offer 
  
HTML offers hypertext
links to other documents, of course; but there's
 much more :
   internal links (beginning with #);
  ordered and unordered lists;
  inline .gif pictures
  a variety of type styles, such as bold or italic (use very judiciously);
  different levels of heading;
  a descriptive and helpful title (would a search engine that just
   looked at words in the title find your document when it should?).
   
 Appropriate breadth of topic 
  
Your topic should not be too broad or too narrow.  If it's too broad,
it may end up merely being a survey of a subject area.  If it's too
narrow, you may have trouble finding enough references and enough things
to say.  Try to minimize the survey and overview part of your document
(although a few paragraphs may well be appropriate) and emphasize
the analysis and critique part of the document.

  
 Interesting and thoughtful content 
  
Many of us have had the pleasant
experience of coming across a "mother-lode" document, one which provides
a useful overview of a subject area, expresses opinions arising from
a distinct and well thought out point of view, and is chock full of
links to related documents.  You should aim to produce a document of
this nature.
Your document should go far beyond being a
hotlist of URLs you have run across.
  
Although the format of this assignment is not question and answer, 
it may be useful to formulate several questions about your topic and
write your document so that those questions are answered.
The following questions are offered as examples of
the types of questions that you may find helpful to consider
and to address.  There is no requirement to ask or to answer
these specific questions.
   How has your subject matter been affected by WWW?
   What will be the relationship between WWW and your subject
     matter in 2 years?
   What types of people are interested in both WWW and your
     subject matter?  Professionals?  Academics?  Students?  Home
     computer users?
   How can some of the elements of your topic (you have to figure
     out what this means) be arranged along a spectrum?  How can
     they be compared to each other?
   How can the URLs you have found be categorized?
   What are the main controversies on this topic?  What is your
     stance on these controversies?
   
 Interesting links 
  
As far as possible, your links should be to 
documents which are themselves interesting.  Prefer primary sources
over secondary ones (e.g., if you were writing on WWW search engines,
it would be better to link to Lycos and The Harvest Project than to
December's New Spiders article).  
If you are  not</strong> writing about search engines, then
don't mention them; this document is not about how you found the
URLs you link to.  (Of course, there could be an exception to this
rule, if the path to the link was germane to your topic.)
  
The five URLs you submitted with 
your proposal should just be a starting point -- ideally you'll have
many more, not all directly related to your topic (see the December
and Franklin documents for examples).

  
 Reasonable length 
  
A document written by one person
should be between 1500 and 2500
words -- between 3 to 5 full pages.  Documents with more than one author
should be longer, of course.

  
 More than one author 
  
Generally, if there are multiple authors we will expect a longer
and higher quality paper.  The norm will be that all authors will 
receive the same score.  

  

   
 MOST IMPORTANT REQUIREMENT OF ALL: 
  
Normal considerations of academic honesty are in effect for this
research project.  All words and ideas which are not your own must be
properly attributed, just as in every other research paper you have
ever written or will ever write.

  </body> 