 
      Dr. Rina Dechter @ UCI
    <body>

[an error occurred while processing this directive]

   
     
   ICS-175, Project in AI, Winter 2010 
     
   
   overview  | 
   announcements  | 
   lecture notes  | 
   projects  
   

    
	 Assignments 
		For any assignment that you submit you should always state at the top of the report:
the team number, the names of team members and the project title.       Progress report 1. Due February 2  
		 
		For the first report  should be a two page progress report.  The first half/full page of background on your project,
		including references wherever relevant.
		  
		The second page ahould describe your progress.
		  
		In your progress you should  explain:
		    How does the project  built upon what is available in the literature, and out there.
		    what is the architecture of your project (different modules and who is doing what on the team)?
		   what tools will you use, or have started to use.
		   Is there any data that you need to access?
		   How would you evaluate your project. What is the criteria for success.
		   What initial code you started to develop.
		        The presentation order:  
   Team 10 
   Team 15 
    Team 4 
   Team 16 
   Team 5 
   Team 17 
   Team 9 
   Team 8 
   Team 18
   Team 6 
   Team 3 
   Team 1 
   Team 7 
   Team 11 
   Team 2 
   Team 13 
   Team 14 
   Team 12
       Midterm report. For groups presenting week 7 - due Thursday Feb 18  
		 
		  Midterm report should be handed in in class, printed and  stapled together. Length: 3-4 pages. 
		    
		    On the first page you should indicate your team number, the title of your project and names of the team mates.
		      
		      Your report is a logical continuation of your progress report. Your report should contain:
		          Description of your problem
			   Detailed background - previously done research in the area (1 page). You must provide citations and set of references at the end of your report.
			   Tools that you are using (including all previously written code, GUI and third party programs that you use)
			   If applicable, data that you need and the source of it.
			   Input/output of your software
			   Current state of your project - detailed report on the progress you have made so far
			         Midterm presentation.  
	 
	  Presentation shall be given on 7th and 8th week. Attendance is mandatory for all students.
	  
	  Some  requirements:
	      Presentations should last 15 minutes - time limit shall be reinforced. How well you can plan your presentation will be counted towards your grade.
	       You should use slides in your presentation: ppt/pdf.
	       At the start of your presentation you should fully describe your problem (even if you did it before in class presentations)
	       The main topic of your presentation should be your progress so far
	       Talk about concepts and high-level algorithms, not about code
	            
   

  
 School of Information and Computer Science 
 University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3435 
 Dr. Rina Dechter 

 dechter at ics.uci.edu 

  

</body> 