 readmission after disqualification @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  policies  


     
 Undergraduate Student Policies 

 
 

 Readmission after Disqualification 
 Readmission is possible for students who have been academically disqualified! It is highly recommended that a student meet with an academic counselor to prepare for readmission application and requirements.  Student should visit the ICS acadmic counselor  as soon as  he/she has been notified of formal disqualification. 
 In general, a student will need to demonstrate that he/she can finish remaining coursework within the scope of  university policies regarding credit hour unit limits . 
 A student readmitted after academic disqualification will be held to the conditions of a two quarter contract specifying a course plan, unit maximum per quarter, GPA expectations, and mandatory advising sessions.  Failure to meet the contract conditions for any of two quarters may lead to automatic disqualification.  
 The UCI readmission application must be accompanied by: 
 1. A written statement no longer than 2 pages that details the following: 
 
  reason(s) for leaving, 
 reason(s) for returning (including new or renewed interest/focus on Bren School major), 
 ways that previous or existing obstacles to academic progress have been addressed and will be addressed in the future. 
  
 2. An official transcript showing completion of a minimum of one full-time academic year of courses taken through UCI Extension (ACCESS), a community college or another comparable institution.  Please note that the full time course load for the quarters / semesters must be taken consecutively; breaks in academic study between a quarter or semester are not allowed. 
 
  At least six of these courses must meet major requirements (includes math courses). 
 Must earn Cs or higher in each course. 
 Minimum of 2.5 cumulative GPA for this year of work. 
  
 3. If the student intends to change into or out of the Bren School upon readmission, the submission of a Change of Major application is also required. 


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 