 Chiron - User Interface Development System<body>
  User Interface Development System 

  
What is Chiron?
 

The Chiron system provides tools for assisting in the development of
graphical user interfaces and provides a run-time system for managing
and supporting their dynamic behavior.
 

The objective of the Chiron system is to reduce long-term costs
associated with developing and maintaining graphical user interface
(GUI) software.  It achieves this objective by providing key interface
layers which are resilient to change.  In particular, Chiron strongly
separates an application from its user interface code, as well as
separating the user interface code from the underlying toolkit
substrates.  Chiron supports the construction of GUIs which provide
multiple coordinated views of application objects and allows flexible
restructuring of the configuration of those views.  Chiron supports a
concurrent model of control.  While the Chiron architecture supports
heterogeneous, multi-lingual systems, the development tools which are
part of this release only support clients (applications) written
in Ada.
  

Chiron is a serverized system.  The Chiron server and clients run
in separate Unix processes.  Within a client, artists are active 
interface agents that are bound to one or more objects. They encapsulate 
decisions about how objects should be depicted (presentations) as
well as how they behave dynamically (dialogs).  Multiple artists can be 
bound to a single object, providing coordinated multiple views of that 
object.  A Chiron client is made up of application code, a set of 
artists, and client support code.  The client support code implements 
initialization, event detection and routing, and communication with the 
server.  Client support code is automatically generated by client 
building tools.  
  

Chiron leverages from commercial GUI layout tools.  Specifically, Chiron
can be used with Sun Microsystem's DevGuide tool to create artists.
For those aspects of GUIs which DevGuide is incapable of supporting
(e.g. drawing on a canvas), DevGuide and Chiron tools can be used to
create an artist template into which the additional graphical aspects
can be added programmatically.
  

The Chiron server manages all aspects of the user interface that are
not artist or application specific.  It can be thought of as a virtual 
machine providing a high-level graphical "toolkit" interface to artists 
by means of an Abstract Depiction Language (ADL).  The server receives 
ADL instructions from the artists and uses them to create and 
manipulate an internal abstract representation of the graphical 
interface. The representation is rendered to a concrete depiction (a 
user viewable image) via calls to the underlying window system. The 
server also listens for events from the window system (button push, 
menu selection, etc) and translates them to Chiron events before 
shipping them back to the appropriate client.  The Chiron server 
provides flexibility in terms of windowing systems and toolkits, 
application languages, and process inter-connection topology.  Although 
we currently only provide support for Ada clients, it is feasible to 
provide other language-specific interfaces to the server's ADL.
  

The Chiron model is highly concurrent.  Most components maintain
their own, and possibly multiple, threads of control.  Thus, unlike
most user interface architectures, Chiron avoids imposing sequential 
control upon tools, allowing the tool, the user interface, and the server, 
to run in parallel.
  

   
 System Requirements 

Chiron 1.4 requires SunAda version 1.1,
the X Window System, version 11 revision level 5, on a Sun 4
color or monochrome workstation.  Chiron has been developed using
the gcc compiler v2.5.8.  The lasted Chiron 1.4 release has
been successfully compiled under SunAda 2.1 running on Solaris 2.3.
This version has also been successfully ported to an RS6000 under
Verdix VADS 6.2.
 

Chiron makes use of XView version 3.0 and Motif version 1.2 to build
the XView and Motif versions of the Chiron server.  You will need at least
one of these toolkits.
  

Chiron also requires Q v3.0, an Ada-C interprocess communication support
utility and Arpc v402.3, an extension to Sun RPC/XDR 4.0, both developed
by the Department of Computer Science, 
 
University of Colorado, Boulder. 
You must install Arpc and Q before installing Chiron.  For convenience,
copies of both Arpc and Q have been bundled in the Chiron 1.4 distribution.
  

   
Chiron Source and Papers
 

   Chiron.1.4 Source 
  This tar file contains the sources for Chiron 1.4, Q, and Arpc. [4.3MB]
   Chiron.1.4 Binaries for SunOS 4.1.2 
  Chiron.1.4 Binaries for Solaris 2.5 
   These tar file contains a binary versions of Chiron for those who
don't have the  software necessary  to build
Chiron.  The binary distribution allows you to run the Chiron demos.
You must have the full installation to build your own clients. [11.7MB]
   
Supporting Separations of Concerns and Concurrency in the Chiron-1 User
Interface System 
  This document contains the most complete description of the Chiron-1 
architecture. [240kB]
   
CHI93 Paper   The paper published in the proceedings of
the 1993 Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. INTERCHI '93. [90kB]
   
Information on the latest   patches .

  Screenshots 

All of the pictures listed below are screenshots of working applications 
developed using Chiron.

    Flight simulator 
  This Chiron interface was developed for a preexsiting flight simulator
application.  Each instrument in the display is associated with a separate
artist.  The application manages a simple set of flight laws and
continually updates the six degrees of freedom of the simulated aircraft.
Artist's giving various presentations of the aircraft's state are attached
to objects that define properties of the simulated aircraft.
    ProDAG 
  The graphical user interface for the ProDAG program dependency 
analysis tool was developed using Chiron.
    Tetris(tm) 
   A distributed multi-player Tetris(tm) style game.
    
arcadia-chiron@ics.uci.edu  
Arcadia Project at UCI   
Department of Information and Computer Science,  
University of California, Irvine, CA  92717-3425
 
Last modified: Thu Apr 18 02:54:25 1996
</body> 