 Shivajit Mohapatra :: Personal Stuff<body>

    
            
             
                 
                     
                         
                              
                                     Bio 
                                 
                                 
                                     Portfolio 
                                 
                                 
                                     Publications 
                                 
                                 
                                     Engagements 
                                 
                                 
                                     Personal 
                                 
                                 
                                     Miscellanea 
                                 
                              
                     
                 
             
            

            

               

                  :: Reading  
                  
                   I am glad I have gotten back to reading. The list on the left is currently being served. The one
                   on the right is the list of my favorites. Both lists are likely to change soon :)
                 

                 
                     
                         
                            Playing catch up. Yes, I should have read these a long time back.
                         
                         The Catcher in the Rye  by Salinger  *  
                            The Elegant Universe  by Brian Greene 
                            A New Earth  by Eckhart Tolle 
                            The Stranger  by Albert Camus 
                            The Last Lecture  by Randy Pausch 
                        
                     
                        
                            These are my favorites from a while back. I am sure you will enjoy reading them
                           as much as I did.
                        
                         Foucault's Pendulum  by Umberto Eco 
                            The Fountainhead  by Ayn Rand 
                            Roots  by Alex Haley 
                            The Lord of the Rings  by J. R. R. Tolkien 
                            Tracking Jim: A Hunt in Corbett Country  by Prosenjit Das Gupta  
                        
                 
                 
                    In case you are wondering, I am also a sucker for popular fiction. I have read most novels by
                    the following authors : Jeffery Archer, John Grisham, Ken Follett, Michael Crichton,
                    Dean Koontz, Wilbur Smith and a few others.
                 

                

                    :: Tennis  
                  
                    I am very passionate about tennis. I practically lived and breathed tennis as a kid. I miss
                    playing competitive tennis these days, but I sure hope I can continue to pursue this passion
                    for ever. In the past, I have been a state champion and a university (BITS, Pilani) gold
                    medalist in tennis.

                 
                 
                    I played several tournaments when I lived in California and was ranked no.1 in SoCal in
                    the 5.5 category back in 2001-02.
                    Winning the singles event at the  
		    CHOC  tennis tournament in 2001 and being awarded the winner's trophy by
                     Roy Emerson , was definitely a
                    very memorable experience. Yes, I did win CHOC again in
                    2003. Check out some  pictures 
                    of my final match with Robb Gallegos. Winning my first doubles
                    title (The Irvine Winter Classic) with Derek Martin (Big-D) was also special. I also won the
                    Evening Tennis Classic at the Palisades tennis club (Newport Beach) in 2003 and the Moonlight
                    Classic at Whittier Narrows in 2004.
                 
                 
                    Recently (2013), I played doubles at the  
                    Walt Herrick Sr. Men'S Open Tournament  and lost in the first round. Two things,
                    I need match practice and I am getting old. 
                 
                            

                                

                    :: Upcoming Travel  
                   Boston, MA - Feb 18-22, 2013 
                     Oslo, Norway - Feb 25 - Mar 4, 2013 
                     :: Inspirations  
                    Tom Whittaker  ( Talk about beating the odds !!! ) 
                      Stefan Edberg  
                          ( He is my favorite tennis player of all time ) 
                      Howard
                            Roark   ( Can there ever be a "real" person like him? ) 

                      Jim Corbett      
                            ( The best game hunter ever. ) 
                      Jerry Seinfeld    ( Love his humour ) 
                     :: Pictures  
                  
                     Some pictures from the past</strong>.
                 

                   Banquet  at CODES-ISSS 2003 at Newport Beach. 
                      Singapore  
                     San Francisco ( page1 ,
                         page2 ),
                         Berkeley  

                      Crocodile Sanctuary  (Orissa, India) (2003-2004)  
                     France ( Paris ,
                     Normandie ) 
                      Aruba  
                     Peru ( Gallery 1 ,
                               Gallery 2 ,
                               Gallery 3 )
                     

                      Canada  

                  
         
       
            
             
                 © Shivajit Mohapatra 
                      
             
         
       </body> 