 Yunan Chen<body>

 yunan chen  
Associate Professor, Department of Informatics, University of California, Irvine 

         
 Bio           
 News           
 Publications           
  Students &amp; Fellows           
 
        
    

  Bio   

I am Associate Professor of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. My research interests lie in the intersection of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW) and Health Informatics. In particular, I am interested in designing and evaluating interactive systems for clinical documentation, patient-provider interaction and personal information management during chronic care. I received my PhD degree from the  iSchool at Drexel University  in 2008, and a Bachelor of Medicine degree from China Medical University in 2003.  

My research aims to provide empirical, conceptual, and theoretical understandings of information practices in healthcare through  in situ  examination of how healthcare providers and consumers, e.g. patients and caregivers, interact with computerized technologies in their daily lives or work practices. I have done extensive research exploring sociotechnical impacts and design issues of electronic health records systems, and more recently, patient-facing applications such as personal informatics tools and chronic disease management systems.  

Currently, I am Director of the Undergraduate Minor Program in  health informatics . Since Fall 2016, I serve as Vice Chair for Undergraduate Studies in the Department of Informatics.  

  News    

January 2017: I will be serving as the editor for Health Matters forum in  Interactions.   Looking forward to your submissions.   

December 2016: Congratulations to Amid, Clara, Sun Young, Yu, and Xinning for having their papers accepted in CHI 2017 conference.  

    Xinning Gui, Yubo Kou, Katie Pine, Yunan Chen. Managing Uncertainty: Decision Making during a Disease-Induced Public Health Crisis.

  Amid Ayobi, Paul Marshall, Anna Cox, Yunan Chen. Quantifying the Body and Caring for the Mind: Understanding Self-Tracking in Multiple Sclerosis.

  Xinning Gui, Yu Chen, Clara Caldeira, Dan Xiao, Yunan Chen. When Fitness Meets Social Networks: Investigating Social and Fitness Practices on WeRun.

  Sunyoung Park, Yunan Chen. Patient Strategies as Active Adaptation: Understanding Patient Behaviors During an Emergency Visit.
  


August 2016: Congratulations to Yu, Sun Young and Clara, for having their papers accepted in CSCW 2017 conference. 

   Sun Young Park, Yunan Chen. Beyond health literacy: Supporting patient-provider communication during an emergency visit. In: Proceedings of the 2017 ACM Conference on
Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW '17). 

 Clara Caldeira, Matthew Bietz, Mari Vidauri, Yunan Chen. Senior care for aging in
place: Balancing assistance and independence. In: Proceedings of the 2017 ACM Conference
on Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW '17). 

 Yu Chen, Yunan Chen, Mirana Randriambelonoro, Antoine Geissbuhler, Pearl Pu. Design considerations for social fitness applications: Comparing chronically ill patients and healthy adults. In: Proceedings of the 2017 ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW '17). 
 

July 2016: New paper accepted in Journal of CSCW  

   Aisling Ann O'Kane, Sun Young Park, Helena Mentis, Ann Blandford, Yunan Chen. Turning to peers: Integrating understanding of the self, the condition, and others' experiences in making sense of complex chronic conditions. Journal of CSCW.    Publications   
A list of my publications is available at  Google Scholar .  

  Students &amp; Fellows    
 Xinning Gui   Clara Marques Caldeira  

Mayara Figueiredo  Sun Young Park  (graduated in 2015)  

 Yu Chen  (postdoctoral fellow) 

  
 
   Contact:   

6099 Bren Hall 
University of California, Irvine 
Irvine, CA, 92697 
yunanc [at] ics.uci.edu  

Download high resolution   headshot .  




  
                                 
 </body> 