 Data Structures<body> CS 261, Winter 2016: Data Structures  This course meets Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, 2:00 - 2:50 in  Steinhaus Hall 128 . Coursework will consist of weekly homeworks, turned in at the
start of lecture and returned at the reader's office hours,
one midterm, and a comprehensive final exam. Group work on homeworks is permitted; each student should turn in his or her own copy of the homeworks. Homeworks will usually be assigned Fridays and due on the following Friday. Grading will be based 20% on homework, 35% for the midterm, and 45% for the final.  Instructor office hours are TBA. The reader for the course is Maral Amir; office hours TBA.  There is no
required textbook; however, much of the course material will be drawn
from the Wikipedia articles collected together in
the Wikipedia "book"
  Fundamental Data Structures  .
Additionally, suggested internet readings for the
topics covered here will be linked from the schedule of topics.  This course may be used as part of the comprehensive exam in the
  computer science masters program. To pass the comprehensive exam,
  students must score at least 66% of the possible points on the final
  examination for the course. Students who wish to take the
  comprehensive exam but are not enrolled in the
  course should contact me by email before the end of week 8 of the
  quarter to reserve a place in the exam.  Tentative schedule of topics    Week 1:  
 Introduction: Abstract data types versus data structures. Worst case versus amortized complexity. 
  The
potential method of amortized analysis .  Dynamic arrays . Stacks, queues, and deques. 
  Homework 1 , due Friday, January 15. 
  Homework 1 solutions  
  Weeks 2–3:  
 No class Monday Jan. 11 or Wednesday Jan. 13; Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday Monday Jan. 18. 
 The  dictionary problem  and  hash tables .  Hash chaining ,  linear probing , and  cuckoo hashing . 
 Hash functions:  cryptographic hash functions ,  k-independent hashing , and  tabulation hashing . 
  Homework 2 , due Friday, January 29. 
  Homework 2 solutions  
  Week 4:  
  Bloom
filters ,  invertible Bloom
filters ,  MinHash ,
 streaming
data structures , and  frequent item detection . 
  Homework 3 , due Friday, February 5. 
  Homework 3 solutions  
  Week 5:  
  Priority
queues .  Binary
heaps  and  k-ary
heaps .  Fibonacci
heaps . 
  Homework 4 , due Friday, February 12. 
  Homework 4 solutions  
  Week 6:  
  Binary
search trees  and predecessor
queries.  Random
binary search
trees ,  AVL
trees , and  rank-balanced trees . 
  Splay trees ,
static
optimality,  competitive
analysis , and
the  dynamic optimality conjecture . 
  Homework 5 , due Friday, February 19. 
  Homework 5 solutions  
  Week 7:  
 President's Day holiday Monday, Feb. 15. 
 Midterm Wednesday, Feb. 17 
  Tries  and  suffix trees . 
  Week 8:  
  Range
searching ,  Dynamic prefix sums 
and  augmented
binary search
trees .  Fractional
cascading . 
  Homework 6 , due Friday, March 4. 
  Homework 6 solutions  
  Week 9:  
  Range minima ,  Cartesian trees ,  lowest common ancestors , and  level ancestors . 
  Van Emde Boas trees . 
  Week 10:  
 Guest lectures by Will Devanney (Monday and Wednesday, on  persistence )
and Mike Goodrich (Friday,
on  union-find ). 
  See also:  Spring 2013 syllabus  and  Fall 2011 syllabus  including
sample homeworks and exams with their solutions.    David Eppstein , 
 ICS ,  UC Irvine . </body> 