 Dependency Diagrams and Graph-Constrained Correlation
    Dynamics: New Systems for Probabilistic Graphical Modeling<body>
     
       
	Dependency Diagrams and Graph-Constrained Correlation
        Dynamics: New Systems for Probabilistic Graphical Modeling
	 
          My PhD thesis focused on two novel approaches in probabilistic
          graphical
	  models. Each of these is described on its
	  own page. Each page also includes links to download software
	  packages for the Mathematica programming langauge, and
	  example notebooks. 
             Dependency
	  Diagrams  extend  
          factor graphs (a superset of Bayesian networks and Markov
          random fields). Dependency diagrams add to factor graphs the
          power to represent indexing, gating, and hard
          constraints. This new formalism makes the modeling of
          systems with unknown or variable structures explicit and
          straightforward. The dependency diagram framework also
          enables the automatic translation of diagrams that represent
          models into diagrams that represent Markov chain Monte Carlo
          sampling and inference algorithms, and the subsequent
          autogeneration of runnable code.  I used Dependency Diagrams
          to implement a package that, 
          among other things, automatically generates runnable source
          code for the process of performing Metropolis-Hastings
          sampling on arbitrary
	  distributions.    Graph-Constrained   
	    Correlation Dynamics  formalizes a method of
	  representing probability distributions that evolve
	  continuously in time according to the chemical master
	  equation. This is accomplished by combining a Markov
	  Random Field, which represents the instantaneous
	  probability of the system, with a set of ordinary
	  differential equations on the parameters of the MRF.  
          My research included the development of two methods to
	  optimize the fit between a GCCD model and the
	  corresponding reaction network. 
          I have implemented a 
	  software package, linked above, which leverages 
	  Dependency Diagrams to optimize GCCD models. 
             
          A pdf copy of my thesis is available 
           here . 
         
       
     
  </body> 