 Hyperwebs Tab in the Hyperweb Manager<body>

  Home  

 Hyperwebs Tab 

 This tab contains a view of the hyperwebs managed by the Hyperweb Manager. Hyperwebs can be created or deleted using the two buttons at the bottom of this tab. 

 The display shows a hierarchy of folder and document icons that represent the hyperwebs on this website. A folder icon denotes a node that has children while a document icon represents a node with no children. Each node is a complete hyperweb of anchors and links. A child hyperweb also has access to the anchors and links stored in its ancestors. 

 The hostname of the website is the root node of the hierarchy. All hyperwebs share this node as their common ancestor (which is the only node which does not have a set of anchors and links associated with it). This arrangement enables a mapping between a hyperweb and a URL. For instance, a leaf node  web1.1  whose parent is  web1  whose parent is the root node has an associated URL of &lt;http://host.domain.com/web1/web1.1/&gt;. A user can use this URL to browse the web in a Web browser provided that the host's Web server is properly configured. 

 Displaying the hyperweb hierarchy 

 To display the children of a node, double click on the folder icon or single click on the dot symbol in front of it. To hide the node's children, double
click on the open folder icon or single click on the dot symbol in front of it. 

   

 Openning the root node will display its hyperwebs. 

   

 Variations between Look-and-Feels 

  The Motif Look-and-Feel (shown below) requires only a click on the plus symbol to open the folder, and a click on the minus symbol to close it.
     

 Operations 

 Two operations can be performed on hyperwebs:  Create Subweb  and  Delete Web . These operations are only available when the hyperweb manager is connected to a hyperweb server  and  a hyperweb is selected. To determine if a hyperweb server is connected, click on the  Hyperweb Server Info tab . 

 Create Subweb 

 This operation creates a hyperweb below the selected node. 

 To create a hyperweb, first select the parent hyperweb (or the root node). In the example below,  web1  is selected. 

   

 Click the  Create Subweb  button to begin the creation process. 

 The Hyperweb Manager will not perform the operation if any Chimera servers are connected to it. The following warning message will be displayed if one or more Chimera servers are connected. 

   

 Clicking  Yes  will allow the operation to proceed. The disconnected Chimera servers can connect back to the Hyperweb Manager after the operation is complete. 

 A dialog will request the name for the new hyperweb. In the example below, the name for the new hyperweb is  web1.3 . 

   

 The new hyperweb is then created and appears in the hierarchy in the appropriate position. 

   

  Note:  Only names that begin with a number or a letter are allowed. If an illegal character is used, the following warning will be displayed. 

   

 Delete Web 

 This operation deletes the selected hyperweb along with its children.  This
operation is enabled when a hyperweb has been selected.   

 To delete a hyperweb, first select it. In the example below,  web1.3  has been selected through a mouse click. 

   

 Click  Delete Web . 

 As before, if a Chimera Server is connected, the Hyperweb Manager will display a warning and offer the user the chance to disconnect it. To continue with the deletion operation, click  Yes . 

 As shown below, the selected web will be removed. 

   

 If the user attempts to delete a parent hyperweb, the Hyperweb Manager will warn the user with the following dialog. 

   

 Clicking  Yes  will continue with the operation and will delete the parent hyperweb and all of its children. 

  Home  

</body> 