 Contribution to Open Source Software<body>

 
 
Software
 
 

 
 
  Home  
 
 
  Research  
 
 
  Software  
 
 
  Publications  
 
 
  Industry  
 
 
  Resume  
 
 
  Flashback!  
 
 

 
 Open source software that I've created or contributed to 
  
 
During the course of my research, I've developed or contributed to open source software.
This page is a description of the software and my contribution to them (in chronological order)
   :: NOIS: Non-Overlapping-Interval SkipList  
  This is a niche piece of software (to say the least).
This is a data structure that stores non-overlapping intervals. When a new interval is added, and if existing
interval(s) overlap with the new interval, the intervals are merged to maintain the invariant of non-overlapping
intervals. Unlike Interval SkipList useful for "stabbing queries" (finding all intervals that contain a point),
in NOIS, stabbing queries make little sense -- a point will be contained in exactly one or zero interval. NOIS
is more useful for something like a publish-subscribe system where subscrition ranges need to be merged.
Originally, I was evaluating using something like Red-Black trees but implementation using SkipLists is much
easier. The base code for the normal SkipList was obtained from
 here . The NOIS Java jar file
can be downloaded from  here 
 
  :: RAPID+CREW: Peer2Peer Flash Dissemination System  
 
Details coming soon.  I'm trying to release a new version of the software.  Please check back in a
couple of days. Thanks!
 
  :: TAO: C++ Implementation of CORBA Middleware  
 
I co-designed and implemented the first server-side Asynchronous Method Handling (AMH)
mechanism for CORBA middleware in
  TAO  .
TAO can be downloaded from   here  .
TAO (The ACE ORB) is an open-source implementation of a CORBA Object Request Broker (ORB)
built using components and patterns in the ACE framework.
 
  :: ZEN: Java Implementation of CORBA Middleware  
 
I co-designed and implemented the initial version of the Portable Object Adapter (POA) of the Java Orb called
  ZEN  . ZEN is a freely available, open-source, middleware
that is compliant with most of the features defined in the CORBA 2.3 specification. ZEN can be downloaded
from  here . I also designed the logo for it (The Zorro
type Z .. in Gimp of course :)
 


 

 
  
 
 NOIS 
 
 
 TAO 
 
 
 ZEN 
 
 

 
     HTML  •  CSS  •  508  

  </body> 