 Programming Assignments<body>

 
 Programming Assignments 
 
  Introduction to Computer Science I 
ICS-21: Lecture A/Labs 1-3 
Spring 2012  
  
  

  Procedures 
 
Programming assignments are typically due one week after they are assigned,
  at 11:30pm, on a Wednesday night.
To turn in programs, and verify the submission, use the
   
  Checkmate  Homework Dropoff system: it is also available on the
  standard frame index on the course website: it uses UCInetID Secure Web
  Login.
You receive  NO POINTS  for late programs, unless you have discussed the
  matter with me and gotten my official permission (typically, granted prior to
  the due date, always via email and not just orally; contact me as soon as
  possible).
  
 IN ALL CASES, you must drop off (on time) whatever part of the program you
  have written , if you are to receive any partial credit for a submission
  (either on time or late with permission); if you drop off no files, I must
  assume that you have done no work on the assignment (which will result in a
  grade of 0).
  


  Pair Programming 
We will use  pair programming  on most assignments (either  required 
  or  optional , although it is sometimes  prohibited ); it is only
  on these assignments that students can closely collaborate with their
  partners, turning in a single, joint program.
Only  ONE STUDENT  from the pair should drop off (all parts of) the
  program -which one doesn't matter- but the  NAMES  of both students
   MUST APPEAR IN A COMMENT  inside the code file(s).
See  Pair Programming  for
  details about pair programming, and the right and wrong ways to do it.
There is a tremendous amount to be gained by both group members, if they
  pair program in the right way.
 
If you are having problems finding a student to pair with, or believe that
  you your schedule disallows the ability to work in a pair, contact me
  immediately.
Without making prior arrangments with me, individual students submitting a
  program when pairing is mandatory will have their grade reduced by 25%.


  Starting Programs 
Please read each assignment completely and carefully before starting it.
I suggest that you print and then read it, marking relevant material with a
  highlighter (details that you might forget by the end of an assignment).
We will typically discuss each new assignment in Lab on the Thursday it is
  assigned, and start working on it then.

 

  Extra Points for Submitting Early 
If you drop off your program early, you will receive extra points (1 point if
  you submit it 24 hours early, 2 points if you submit it 48 hours early).
Since each program is worth 40 points, you can raise your grade on a program
  by 5% (half a letter grade) by turning it in two days early.
Note that turning in a program more than two days early results in just
  2 extra points; therefore, I encourage students to finish their programs as
  early as possible, but continue to think about them (and ask questions about
  them) until two days before the due date, and submit them early at that time.
 


  Programming Assignments 
I will turn text into links below on the assigned date.
 
     Program  Assigned  Due  Description  Pairing? 
     #0 
 4/05  4/11 
  
  Computing Infrastructure
 
  Prohibited 




   #1 
 4/12  4/18 
  
  Simple Program Suite
 
  Required 




   #2 
 4/19  4/25 
  
 Intermediate Programming Suite I
 
  Recommended 




   #3 
 4/26  5/2 
  
  Intermediate Programming Suite II
 
  Recommended 




   #4 
 5/3  5/16 
  
  Programming with Classes
 
  Recommended 






   #5 
 5/17  5/23 
  
  Writing Classes
 
  Recommended 




   #6 
 5/24  6/8 
  
  Writing Classes with Arrays and Interfaces
 
  Optional 




    </body> 