 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  February 23,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         Malek receives $1 million grant to improve U.S. Air Force systems</strong>
          
                    
 
Associate professor of Informatics  Sam Malek  has received a $1 million grant from the  Air Force Office of Scientific Research  (AFOSR) for his project, “RASS: Resilient Autonomic Software Systems.” The three-year project will be a collaboration between UC Irvine and George Mason University.

  
The RASS project aims to develop a revolutionary new approach to mission support software (MS2) systems used by the United States Air Force (USAF). Existing mission components may become faulty under threat or because of forces of nature. In such events, the USAF relies on other assets. “The dynamic reallocation of resources among different missions has to consider the relative priority of the missions and the importance of these resources to each mission,” the project proposal notes.

  
Malek and his team propose the RASS framework “for monitoring, organizing, and dynamically adapting MS2 systems so that they continue to operate effectively under conditions of system impairment.” The research will design a visual mission activity language (MAL) to specify MS2 system requirements. To do so, the team will investigate a variety of methods and algorithms that can best offer a system reconfiguration plan to be presented to the commander piloting the mission.

  
“The problem addressed is a well-known barrier to effective military operations,” Malek says. “The goal of this project is a revolutionary new approach for developing mission support software systems that can dynamically realign at run-time in support of multiple collaborating missions in response to changes in mission objectives or mission component failures. As a result, command decisions will be based on the most pertinent information available.”

  
Malek and his team also recognize broader military outcomes. “While the application domain used in the proposed research is oriented toward the USAF, the results of the proposed research will be capable of being ported to other areas of the Department of Defense and to the Department of Homeland Security,” they note. 

  
Beyond military outcomes, the researchers anticipate that the project will spawn several conference and journal publications. At George Mason University, the researchers will publish the project’s software as open source, and the project will generate much graduate coursework to “help disseminate a new trend in software systems that support mission critical applications.”





                      Malek receives $1 million grant to improve U.S. Air Force systems    
                &lt; Previous 
                 ICS takes fourth place in iSchools Video Contest
              
                Next &gt; 
                 Web series featuring college students' STEM inventions readies for second season
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 