 NAWCWPNS Procurement Process Architecture Review<body>
    
  NAWCWPNS Procurement Process Architecture  
  Walt Scacchi ,  ATRIUM Laboratory ,  Information and Operations 
Management Dept. ,  School 
of Business Administration ,  University of Southern California . 
213-740-4782, 213-740-8494 (fax) (Scacchi@gilligan.usc.edu). 
   Overview  
 
 
   Background 
  and Definitions  
     Meta-Modeling  

     Definition 
  and Modeling  
     Analysis  

     Simulation  

     Visualization  

     Prototyping, 
  Walkthrough, and Training  
     Process 
  Measurement and Diagnosis  
     Process 
  Redesign and Evaluatiion       Integration: 
  Data and Systems  
     Target 
  Support Environment Generation  
     Instantiation 
  and Enactment  
     Enactment 
  History Capture and Replay      
  
   A paper providing an overall description of our process engineering life 
cycle can be found at  http://cwis.usc.edu/dept/ATRIUM/Papers/Business_Process_Modeling.ps . 
 
   Background and Definitions  
  Strategic Issues  
 
  High performance work organization and empowerment 
    Efficient and effective business process redesign and management 
   
    Cycle time and cost reduction 
      Agile response 
      On-demand performance support (training)    
    Exploit emerging (inter)national information infrastructure for 
  EDI/EFT/EC.    
 
  Tactical Problems  
 
  How to best support people who work on dynamic individual, group/team, and 
  organizational assignments? 
    How to model and redesign  resources  (work products, processes, 
  organization, and information infrastructure) using a common representation? 
    How to inter-relate products to processes to organizations to information 
  infrastructure? 
    How to integrate heterogeneous product data, tools/information systems, 
  data repositories? 
    How to accomodate wide-area resource distribution and organizational 
  autonomy?    
 
  
  Solution:</strong>   A knowledge-based distributed hypertext (KB-DHT) infrastructure that 
supports the modeling, inter-relationship, integration, and accomodation of 
resources and people within local/global virtual organizations.  
 
  Definitions:  
 
  Our focus in targeted at the engineering of complex business processes or 
  capabilities  across their life cycle . 
    A  capability  represents the products, processes, organization 
  staffing, and information infrastructure, as well as their interrelationships, 
  for a recurring business activity. 
    The  web of relationships  among the objects and attributes of a 
  product, process, organization, infrastructure, or total capability defines 
  its  architecture .       
    
     A paper providing an exemplary description of a software development 
  capability architecture can be found at  http://cwis.usc.edu/dept/ATRIUM/Papers/Process_Meta_Model.ps . 
   
   Return to   Overview   
   
  Sources of Experiences Encountered 
 
  
    Anderson Consulting 
    AT&amp;T Bell Laboratories 
    CoGenTex 
    EDS 
    Hewlett-Packard 
    HoloSoFx (formerly Active Management Inc.) 
    McKesson Water Products Co. 
    Naval Air Warfare Center (China Lake, CA) 
    Northrop(-Grumann) B-2 Division 
    SUN Microsystems Computer Corp 
    Perceptronics 
   Return to   Overview   
       The process/capability life cycle follows. 
   Meta-Modeling  
 
  
    Constructing and refining a process concept vocabulary and logic (an 
  ontology) for representing families of capabilities, processes, and their 
  instances in terms of object classes, attributes, relations, constraints, 
  control flow, rules, and computational methods. 
     Experience : key to achieving  process-level interoperability . 
  
   
     Image files that show user interface displays of (a)  a meta-model class hierarchy  we 
  use, and (b)  a meta-model schema 
  for the "task-force" class  can be viewed when selected. 
      
   A paper providing a more detailed description of meta-modeling can be found 
  at  http://cwis.usc.edu/dept/ATRIUM/Papers/Process_Meta_Model.ps . 
   
   Return to   Overview   
        Definition and Modeling  
 
  
    Eliciting and capturing of informal process descriptions, and their 
  conversion into formal process models or process model instances. 
     Experience : Most "as-is" processes are ill-defined and not well 
  understood. 
     Experience : Most process redesign efforts want to primarily focus 
  on "to-be" alternatives, without baselining as-is processes. 
   
     Image files that show views of the  NAWCWPNS Procurement Process 
  Architecture  can be found at the following locations:  
   
     Organization : The generic organizational capability for   Procurement   
    differs considerably across a range of organizations; however, nearly every 
    organization shares  common aspects of 
    procurement activities . 
      
       Product : The  procurement 
    product decomposition  reveals the source of substantial variety within 
    the NAWCWPNS Procurement Capability. 
      
       Technology : The technology decomposition reveals some of the  information 
    systems  employed in the NAWCWPNS Procurement Process, including APADE 
    (which is being superseded/upgraded), and for EDI, SPEDI. We also suggest 
    that the emerging Internet-based  electronic commerce capability of 
    FAST  at USC-ISI, which might be adopted for future use. 
      
       Process : The process decomposition outlines some of the important 
     process 
    elements of procurement at NAWCWPNS , including BankCard (which involves 
    outsourced procurement), SPEDI (which involves electronic data interchange 
    between NAWCWPNS and its vendors), and Large Negotiated Procurement (LNP) 
    (which contains both the request for proposal (RFP) and  Justification 
    and Approval (J&amp;A)  as lower-level subprocesses). 
         
 Return to   Overview   
 
   J&amp;A  Process 
 
  Image files that show views of the NAWCWPNS Justification and Approval 
  (J&amp;A) Process can be found at the following locations: 
   
      Level 1 : The  process  
  includes five activities or task chains and one quality feedback loop. 
     Level 2 - Customer Assistance : The Customer Assistance  process  
  includes three activities and one quality feedback loop. 
      Level 2 - Approvals : The Approvals  process  
  includes five task chains, one branch, and five quality feedback loops; each 
  of the five task chains contains a nested quality feedback loop. 
    
   Return to   Overview   
       RFP Process 
 
  
    Image files that show views of the NAWCWPNS Request for Proposal (RFP) 
  Process can be found at the following locations: 
    
    
     Level 1 : This  process  
  includes seven activities or task chains, one branch, and one quality feedback 
  loop. 
    
    
      Level 2 : This RFP Synopsis  process  
  includes four activities or task chains and one quality feedback loop. 
    
    
      Level 2 : This RFP Draft  process  
  includes five activities or task chains, one branch, and one quality feedback 
  loop. 
      Return to   Overview   
 
  LNP Process 
 
  
    Image files that show views of the NAWCWPNS Large Negotiated Procurement 
  (LNP) Process can be found at the following locations: 
    
    
     Level 1 : This  process  
  includes four activities or task chains. 
    
    
      Level 2 : This LNP PrePalt  process  
  includes two activities or task chains, including the ARP subprocess, within 
  which the J&amp;A can be found. 
    
    
      Level 2 : This LNP PreAward  process  
  includes four activities or task chains, including the RFP subprocess. 
    Return to   Overview   
        Analysis  
 
  
    Evaluating static and dynamic properties of a process model, including its 
  consistency, completeness, internal correctness, traceability, as well as 
  other semantic checks. 
     Experience : Best source of high-value, short-term results and 
  payoffs. 
     Experience : Easy to produce management reports or presentation 
  materials. 
   
     Image files that show user interface displays of (a)  a sample of process model analysis 
  checks , (b)  process model 
  analysis statistics , and (c)  process model analysis view , can 
  be viewed when selected.   
    
   Return to   Overview   
        Simulation:  
 Knowledge-Based 
 
  
    Symbolically enacting process models in order to determine the path and 
  flow of intermediate state transitions in ways that can be made persistent, 
  replayed, queried, dynamically analyzed, and reconfigured into multiple 
  alternative scenarios. 
     Experience : High-value technology is infrequently used. 
     Experience : Can produce narrative summaries of simulation runs. 
  
   
     Image files that show user interface displays of (a)  a process model simulation 
  interaction , and a subsequent (b)  a process model simulation 
  interaction  can be viewed when selected. 
      
   A paper describing the initial design and implementation of this simulation 
  mechanism can be found in, P. Mi and W. Scacchi, "A Knowledge-Based 
  Environment for Modeling and Simulating Software Engineering Processes," 
   IEEE Trans. Knowledge and Data Engineering , Vol. 2(3), 283-294, (1990). 
  Reprinted in  Nikkei Artificial Intelligence , Vol. 20(1), 176-191, 
  (1991, in Japanese).     Discrete-Event 
 
  
    Computationally enacting a sample of process models as network flows with 
  hueristic or statistical arrival rates and service times so as to determine 
  the overall process performance envelope, throughput, systematic behavior, and 
  resource bottlenecks. 
     Experience : Although less flexible, easy to use to discover process 
  optimizations. 
     Experience : Visual interactions and presentations always impress. 
  
   
     Image files that show user interface displays of a discrete-event 
  process model  workflow simulation 
  for the Baseline J&amp;A Process  can be displayed on this link.   
    
   Return to   Overview   
        Visualization  
 
  
    Providing users with graphic views of process models and instances that 
  can be viewed, navigationally traversed, interactively editted, and animated 
  to convey process statics and dynamics. 
     Experience : Process visualizations enable intuitive analysis and 
  discovery. 
     Experience : Visualization appears key to acceptability. 
   
     Image files that show user interface displays of (a)  visual process model editor , (b)  spreadsheet-like process browser , 
  (c)  graphical process model 
  browser , and (d)  graphical 
  process object browser  can be viewed when selected.   
    
   Return to   Overview   
        Prototyping, Walkthrough, and Performance Support (Training On 
Demand)  
 
  
    Incrementally enacting partially specified process model instances in 
  order to evaluate process presentation scenarios to end users, prior to 
  performing tool and data integration. 
     Experience : Process prototyping and walkthrough is effective 
  enabler for eliciting user feedback. 
     Experience : Can provide a basis for user empowerment in controlling 
  design and improvement of local processes. 
     Experience : Generation of performance support materials in response 
  to process improvements or changes is well-received. 
   
     Image files that show user interface displays of (a)  a process prototype or walkthrough 
  display , and (b) a  web  of automatically generated (in HTML format) 
   process 
  performance support materials that document the J&amp;A capability  can be 
  browsed when selected.   
    
   Return to   Overview   
        Process Measurement and Diagnosis  
 
  
    Process measurement is central to knowledge-based process redesign. The 
  following tables pertain to the Baseline J&amp;A Process.    
    J&amp;A Process Measurement Static Structure      Measure 
       Value     Steps
      31    Length
      31    Breadth
      1    Depth
      4    Atomics
      11    Branches
      1    Iterations
      11        
 
 
    J&amp;A Process Measurement Static Organization     Measure 
       Value     Organizational Roles
      8    Value Chains
      3    Department Handoffs
      6    IT-supported activities
      1    IT-supported comm.
      0        
 
 
    J&amp;A Process Measurement Static Derived     Measure 
       Value 
       Diagnostic     Footprint
      44
      Small Process    Parallelism
      1.00*
      Linear Flow    Feedback Ratio
      0.35
      Complexity    Handoff Ratio
      0.19
      Departmental    IT-A Ratio
      0.03
      Manual Work    IT-C Ratio
      0.00*
      Paper Communication       
 Return to   Overview   
 
     Process Redesign and Evaluation  
 
   Process measurements  and  domain-independent (re)design 
heuristics  can be used to envision a number of redesign alternatives. The 
following chart outlines a few of the potential redesigns for the J&amp;A 
Process. 
  The development and application of domain-dependent and instance-specific 
measures and heuristics is expected to produce  more specific redesign 
alternatives , such as those shown  here.  
  A  simulation interface screen  depicting one redesign alternative for 
the J&amp;A Process - R1: Joint Review Meetings, can be seen  here . 
  
   A paper describing our approach to process measurement as the basis for 
guiding process redesign can be found at  http://cwis.usc.edu/dept/ATRIUM/Papers/Process_Measurement.ps . 
 
 Return to   Overview   
 
   Integration: Data, Tool, User Interface   
 
  
    Encapsulating or wrapping selected information systems, repositories, and 
  data objects that are to be invoked or manipulated when enacting a process 
  instance. 
     Experience : Can entail a lot of difficult technical work, but its 
  relatively easy to construct "concept demo's." 
     Experience : Growing interest in providing support for integration 
  of wide-area heterogeneous information repositories using the Internet. 
   
     Image files that show user interface displays of (a)  multiple tools 
  bound to process actions  that are integrated with underlying object 
  manager (not shown) via software broadcast message server (not shown). 
      
   A paper describing the mechanisms support data repository integration can 
  be found at  http://cwis.usc.edu/dept/ATRIUM/Papers/Integrating_Software_Repositories.ps . 
   
    A paper describing the strategy and mechanisms supporting process 
  integration can be found in the paper,  P. Mi and W. Scacchi, "Process 
  Integration for CASE Environments,"  IEEE Software , Vol. 9(2), 45-53 
  (1992). Reprinted in  Computer-Aided Software Engineering , 2nd. Edition, 
  E. Chikofsky (ed.), IEEE Computer Society, (1993).  
   Return to   Overview   
        Target Support Environment Generation  
 
  
    Automatically transforming a process model or instance into a 
  process-based computing environment that selectively presents prototyped or 
  integrated information systems to end-users for process enactment. 
     Experience : Considered a unique capability, not available in other 
  process environments. 
     Experience : Simplifies or eliminates low-level process programming 
  via "application generator" techniques. 
   
     Image files that show user interface displays of (a)  process-encapsulated 
  tool environment  that was generated via automated transformation of the 
  modeled and integrated process. 
      
   A description of this mechanism can be found in the paper P.K. Garg, P. 
  Mi, T. Pham, W. Scacchi, and G. Thunquest, "The SMART Approach to Software 
  Process Engineering,"  Proc. 16th. Intern. Conf. Software Engineering, , 
  IEEE Computer Society, Sorrento, Italy, 341-350, (1994). 
   Return to   Overview   
        Instantiation and Enactment  
 
  
    Performing the modeled process using the environment by a process engine 
  that guides or enforces specified users or user roles to enact the process as 
  planned.
   Return to   Overview   
        Enactment History Capture and Replay  
 
  
    Graphically simulating the re-enactment of a process, in order to more 
  readily observe process state transitions or to intuitively detect possible 
  process enactment anomalies. 
     Experience : Visualizing and replaying process enactment histories 
  is well-received by managers and executives. 
     Experience : Supports "organizational drill-down" when process 
  anomalies are observed. 
   
     An image file that shows a user interface display of (a)  process enactment event history and 
  timing measurements  can be viewed when selected.  
    
   Return to   Overview   
        Conclusions  
 
  
    Business process engineering in general, and procurement process 
  engineering in particular, is a dynamic team-based endeavor that can only lead 
  to mature processes through rapid process prototyping, incremental 
  development, iterative refinement, and the reengineering of ad hoc process 
  task instances and models. 
    Process/capability engineering may be most likely to succeed when focused 
  on  high frequency ,  short duration cycle time , or  high 
  velocity  processes.    Return to   Top   
 
  This interactive presentation page is maintained by   Walt Scacchi   who can 
be reached at the e-mail address noted above. This page was last updated on 
 30 January 1996 . 
                 </body> 