 Goals<body>

 

 
Goals
 

  
    Home 
 
   
    Foundations home 
 
   
 
 Sets   Relations   Correspondences   Ordered Sets   Lattices   Graphs   Powersets   Binary Strings   Logic   AIA   Greek   
   
 
 Glossary   Abstracts   Argument   Glossaries   Inquiry Cycle   Legal Relations   Presentations   
   
 
 Elicitation   Glossaries   Goals   i*   SCR   Tracing   
   
 
 Alloy   MSCs   Regular Exprs.   
   
 
 Design Patterns   Javadoc   Java Packages   Java Types   
   
 
 (X)HTML   XML Schemas   XSLT   
 



 



 
   
    
    Fig. #.  The relationships among goals and other requirements entities
   
 

 
A  goal  is the result toward which effort is directed,
an objective that should be achieved. 
A goal expresses what is desired,
and in addition usually conveys why it is desired
and the larger context in which the motivations and rationales behind it
can be understood. 
 

 
Here are some examples of goals: 
 
   " Ensure  that only the account owner
    can access the account." 
   
    " Prevent  the thrust reversers
    from operating during flight." 
   
    " Achieve  an "A" in this course." 
   
    "Be familiar with the issues, areas, and techniques
    of requirements engineering." 
   
  
Goals are most commonly expressed as imperative sentences
beginning with a verb (as in the examples above). 
 


 Kinds of goals 

 
Goals can be classified in several ways. 
 

 Functional / non-functional, behavioral / developmental-quality 

  
     Functional  goals express services that a system is to deliver. 
   
   
    All other goals are  non-functional . 
    These include goals related to the "-ilities"
    (suitability, reliability, usability, interoperability, verifiability, ...). 
   
     Examples
       
       "Provide safe, reliable, and quick transportation around campus" 
       
       (functional)
       
     "Print a receipt for every transaction" 
       
       (functional)
       
     "Be self-explanatory and easy to use". 
       
       (non-functional)
       
      
A slightly different classification is also made for them. 
 behavioral  goals or  developmental quality  goals
(or goals that are neither): 
 

  
     Behavioral  goals characterize what a system's behavior is to be. 
    These goals are satisfied (or not) by what the system does when it runs. 
   
   
     Developmental quality  goals characterize the process by which
    a system is produced and evolved. 
    These goals are satisfied (or not) by the actions of
    the people responsible for producing a system.
   
     Examples
       
       "Turn out the lights when the room is unoccupied" 
       
       (behavioral)
       
     "Be thoroughly testable so that customers will have a high level of confidence". 
       
       (developmental quality)
       
      
Functional/non-functional and behavioral/developmental-quality
don't quite divide goals the same way. 
Most notably,
there are nonfunctional goals (such as, perhaps, "Cost less than  per copy")
that are arguably neither
behavioral goals (because they don't address the system's behavior)
nor developmental quality goals
(because they don't characterize the development process). 
There are arguably behavioral goals (such as, perhaps,
"Secretly provide access to internal program state
needed to make testing more effective")
that are more closely related to a nonfunctional goal
such as testability
than to any ordinary functional goal. 
It seems that
every developmental-quality goal would also be a non-functional goal,
and any functional goal would also be a behavioral goal
(I have not come up with counterexamples, in any case). 
 


 Hard / soft 

 
Some goals are either satisfied or not satisfied — there is no in-between. 
 

 
Other goals (probably the vast majority)
cannot be completely satisfied, but only satisfied to a degree;
these are called  soft goals . 
 

 
Soft goals can be said to be  satisficed  (rhymes with "iced")
rather than satisfied
(a word due to Herb Simon in 1956). 
A soft goal is satisficed if it is achieved to a degree that is acceptable,
with the understanding that this may cover a wide range of relative achievement,
and that complete achievement is not possible. 
If a soft goal is not satisficed,
then it is  denied . 
 


 Achieve / maintain / optimize 

 
Another way of classifying goals
relates to their temporal characteristics. 
 

  
    An  Achieve  goal refers to a property that is
    not initially true, but that becomes true. 
   
   
    A  Maintain  goal refers to a property that
    starts out true and stays that way. 
   
   
    A  Stop  goal refer to a property that is
    not initially false, but that becomes false. 
   
   
    A  Prevent  goal refers to a property that s
    starts out false and stays that way. 
   
   
    An  Optimize  goal refers to a soft property
    that is to be satisficed. 
   
  
In terms of temporal logic,
an  Achieve  goal is of the form "eventually P",
while
a  Maintain  goal is of the form "always P". 
 

 
Some authors capitalize the verb of such goals,
as I have done in some examples above. 
 


 Identifying goals and obstacles to them 

 
Talk to stakeholders and read documents, and ask "why" questions. 
Look for motivations and rationales
(rationale = a reasoned exposition of principles,
an explanation or statement of reasons [OED]). 
Ask what could prevent a goal from being satisfied;
those things are  obstacles . 
 

 
Once you have some goals, it is often possible to derive additional goals from them. 
 

   Ask "why" about the goal (you may get a higher-level goal). 
   
    Ask how the goal is to be achieved (you may get its subgoals). 
   
    Abstract and generalize from the goal (you may get a larger goal). 
   
  
   
    
    Fig. 1.  A goal structure for part of the London Ambulance System
   
 

 Goal structures 

 
Goals can be related to each other by  contribution ,
either partial or complete. 
The satisfaction of one goal may contribute to another's satisfaction. 
If the contributing goal is simpler or of smaller scope
than the goal it contributes to,
the contributing goal is called a  subgoal  of the other. 
 

 
The contribution of a subgoal may be  positive ,
or it may be negative
(in which case we can equivalently say the goals  conflict ). 
In the case of a conflict (i.e. negative contribution),
satisfaction of the subgoal
interferes with satisfaction of its supergoal. 
 

 
An obstacle only contributes negatively, by definition. 
An obstacle differs from a negatively-contributing subgoal
in that achievement of an obstacle is not desired,
whereas achievement of a goal is. 
 

 
Two special cases of contribution are particularly useful. 
In the first case, a group of subgoals is said to be an
 AND-refinement  of their supergoal if
the satisfaction of all of the AND subgoals
is sufficient to ensure satisfaction of their supergoal. 
In the second case, a group of subgoals is said to be an
 OR-refinement  of their supergoal if
satisfaction of any one of the OR subgoals
is sufficient to ensure satisfaction of their supergoal. 
 

 
These relationships can be drawn in a diagram like Fig. 1. 
In this diagram of some goals for the London Ambulance System,
complete contribution is shown by solid arrows. 
The arrows for the contributions of AND-subgoals
are grouped by a circle;
the arrows for contributions of OR-subgoals
go all the way to their supergoal. 
See the four subgoals of "Allocated Ambulance Mobilized"
at the bottom of the figure: 
it has two OR-ed contributions, one the AND of the two subgoals on the left,
and the other the AND of the two subgoals on the right. 
 

 
The figure also shows a goal whose partial contribution
is indicated by a dotted line,
and whose mitigation of an obstacle is shown
by an arrow to the obstacle. 
The obstacle's negative contribution to the goal it obstructs
is indicated by an arrow with a bar across it
(that arrow is red for emphasis). 
 

 
These goals could be either hard or soft goals. 
In the case of a soft subgoal,
satisficing of the subgoal contributes to its supergoal;
in the case of a soft supergoal,
its subgoal contributes to the satisficing of the supergoal. 
 


 
    Fig. 2.  Key for Figs. 3-5
   
 

 Example analysis of goal relationships 

 
It is possible to draw arrows among all goals that contribute to each other,
and end up with a diagram that looks like a tangle
and that is so complex it is not helpful. 
The way to combat this
is to refine each goal into its AND and OR subgoals,
put each larger goal above its smaller subgoals,
and then eliminate all the arrows
that are implied by inheritance. 
When you have two goals that are related,
but not in a way that you can express easily,
the best approach is usually to refine each of them into subgoals,
and try to find a common subgoal
(if the original goals contributed partially to each other)
or two subgoals that are in conflict
(if the original goals conflicted partially with each other). 
 

 
    Fig. 3.  Goal analysis (first step)
   
 

 Example goal analysis — Step 1 

 
In the first step,
six goals for an elevator were produced. 
Some of the goals partially contribute to others, and
one goal partially conflicts with another;
the diagram indicates the partial contributions with dashed lines and arrows,
and conflicts with slashes across the lines and arrows. 
The goals are:
 

  Comfortable Transport 
   
    Move passengers in such a way that they are not made uncomfortable by the process.
   
   Fairness of Service 
   
    Be fair to all passengers.
   
   Minimize Waiting 
   
    Minimize the time passengers spend waiting for the elevator.
   
   Safe Entry and Exit 
   
    Leave the doors open long enough that all passengers can
    enter and exit the elevator safely.
   
   Speedy Transport 
   
    Move passengers quickly to their destinations.
   
   Transport Passengers 
   
    Move passengers from floor to floor.
   
  
    Fig. 4.  Goal analysis (second step)
   
 

 Example goal analysis — Step 2 

 
In the second step,
several changes have been made. 
The first change is that the goals have been re-expressed more exactly,
and some new goals and  obstacles  have been added. 
A number of partial contributions have been added, to the goal structure,
indicating that we know the goals they connect are related
but aren't sure how yet. 
 

   Acceleration Limit  
   
    There is a limit to how rapidly a passenger can be
    accelerated in an elevator
    without feeling uncomfortable or worse.
   
   Comfortable Transport 
   
    Move passengers in such a way that they are not made uncomfortable by
    any part of the process.
   
   Doors Open Long Enough 
   
    Leave the elevator doors open long enough
    when passengers are entering and exiting
    so that no passenger must move uncomfortably quickly.
   
   Fairness of Service 
   
    Minimize the amount of variation in the time it takes
    for passengers to make analogous trips.
   
   Minimize Transport Time 
   
    Minimize the time between when a passenger presses a call button
    and when the passenger exits at his/her destination floor.
   
   Minimize All Waiting 
   
    Minimize the average time all passengers spend waiting for an elevator.
   
   Minimize Waiting 
   
    Minimize the time passengers spend waiting for an elevator.
   
   Safe Transport 
   
    Transport each passenger without injury.
   
   Safe Entry and Exit 
   
    Leave the doors open long enough that all passengers can
    enter and exit the elevator safely.
   
   Slow Enough Acceleration 
   
    Reduce the maximum acceleration of the elevator
    enough that no passenger is made uncomfortable.
   
   Speedy Transport 
   
    Minimize the time between when a passenger enters the elevator
    and when the passenger exits at his/her destination floor.
   
   Transport Passengers 
   
    Move passengers from floor to floor in a satisfactory manner.
   
    Walking Limit  
   
    Passengers, especially disabled or elderly passengers,
    can only walk so fast.
   
  
    Fig. 5.  Goal analysis (third step)
   
 

 Example goal analysis — Step 3 

 
In the third and final step for this example,
two more subgoals have been added
that specify how  Minimize Waiting  and  Speedy Transport 
can be achieved. 
These subgoals are in conflict with the existing goals
 Slow Enough Acceleration  and  Minimize Doors Open ,
and make the two obstacles in the preceding step unnecessary. 
An additional subgoal  Optimal Routing  has been added for
 Minimize All Waiting ,
so that the partial contribution from  Minimize Waiting 
can become complete contribution as an AND-subgoal. 
All the goals added in the previous step
have been integrated into the goal structure
so that each is an AND or singleton subgoal of another goal. 
Each of the partial contributions in step 2
has been expressed by the sharing of a specific subgoal,
or by subgoals that conflict. 
 

  Fast Acceleration 
   
    Accelerate the elevator as fast as possible between floors.
   
   Minimize Doors Open 
   
    Minimize the time the doors are open.
   
   Optimal Routing 
   
    Route the elevator among the floors in a way
    that minimizes a summing function of all wait times.
   
  

 

 
 
     
      
 
 2009Sep23We10:12 
 
 Thomas A. Alspaugh 
  alspaugh 
     at  · ics · uci · edu 
      
 
 


</body> 