 Arthur Asuncion's Official Site: Articles<body>
     Arthur Asuncion  
	     --   --   --   --   --   --   --   
	   Articles</strong> 
       
      When I was an undergrad, I wrote news articles and opinion pieces for the Irvine Review, a student paper on campus. Below are some selected articles.  
        Art's Angle:</strong> 
          Fine-Tuned For Life  (February 2006): This article describes the fine-tuning of  constants in physics.
           Darwin or Design?  (October 2005): This article seeks to present a case for design.
           Israel's Role in Bible Prophecy  (March 2005): This article looks at some Biblical prophecies relating to Israel.
           World-Renowned Atheist Finds God Through Science  (February 2005): This Irvine Review article is about a very famous atheist who converted to theism due to the strength of the intelligent design argument.
           Darwinism Lacks Probabilistic Resources  (November 2004): This article responds to Doug Hill's June article which criticized my probability argument and claimed that I had committed academic dishonesty.
           Embryonic Stem Cell Research is Unethical  (October 2004): This article delineates my position against embryonic stem cell research. I think that adult stem cell research is a better alternative.
           Created Equal?  (November 2003): This article addresses the issue of human equality and its logical underpinning: the existence of a Creator.
           Abortion: The War Within  (June 2003): This article gives pro-life arguments on the issue of abortion.
          News Articles: </strong> 
         UCI Weighs in on Bush's Science  (May 2004): Working off of a UCS report that criticized President Bush's science policies, I interviewed several professors at UCI to get a sense of what UCI thinks about Bush's science.  Note: My personal views are not in agreement with some of the views in this article. 
           UCI Student Runs for Assembly  (February 2004): This article talks about an undergraduate who ran for 70th district.
           Budget Cuts are Affecting Academic Programs  (December 2003): In this article, I interviewed several Deans of different schools to give a survey of the current impact of budget cuts on UCI academic programs.
         
     Copyright
 ©  Arthur Asuncion 2007. This is a personal website which is not endorsed by the University. By using this site, you signify that Arthur Asuncion is not liable for anything. Last Modified 4/2/07.  
    </body> 