 Welcome from the Dean @ Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                      ABOUT  

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  About  


     
 Welcome from Dean Papaefthymiou 

 
 

   
 Welcome to the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) at UC Irvine. As the only computing-focused school in the University of California system, the Bren School is a unique place for study, research and collaboration. Our three departments — Computer Science, Informatics and Statistics — incorporate a broad range of curricular and research interests across the informational and computational sciences. 
 The school offers a range of  undergraduate majors  (six in all), including recently developed majors in Computer Game Science and Business Information Management. The diverse selection of majors enables students to gain in-depth knowledge of the information and computer sciences while developing an understanding of the broad reach of the discipline. Our goal is to give students the real-world tools necessary to succeed in the ever-changing technology industry. 
 Our faculty and graduate students are leaders in their  research areas  which span information and computer sciences; they obtain corporate and federal extramural grants, they write leading textbooks in their fields, publish influential journal articles, and participate in key conferences and workshops.  Research in the information and computer sciences is applicable across many scholarly and scientific fields.  Indeed, applications to scientific and policy questions in the biological/health, engineering, and social science disciplines motivate much of our research. 
 I invite you to explore our website and learn more about the Bren School. Please feel free to contact me at  icsdean@ics.uci.edu  if you have questions or comments. 
 Thanks, 
 Marios C. Papaefthymiou Ted and Janice Smith Family Foundation Dean  (as of Jan. 1, 2017)     


 
 
 
 
 More about the school » 
   Bren ICS Mission  
  About the Bren gift  
  Dean's welcome  
  Meet the Dean  
  Bren School Intranet  

  Donald Bren Hall  
  Undergraduate education  
  Graduate studies  
  Find faculty and staff  
  Contact us  
  Safety procedures  
  Visit the Bren School  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 