 Visio for C2/xADL: Archived<body>
 
     
  Jie Ren (任杰)  
   Area   Software  
   Advisor   Richard N. Taylor  
   E-mail   jie@ics.uci.edu  
   
 
 
  Biography  
   Research   
    Teach    
     Work     
   Service   
 Publication 
   Contact   
 
 

 

 Visio for C2/xADL: Archived 

  Download!  

 Visio for C2/xADL is a graphical front end of  ArchStudio 3 . It can be used
to create  xADL 2.0 
document graphically, with special support for  C2 
architecture style  

 Features  
  
    Extend Microsoft Visio to work as ArchStudio 3.0 front end editor 
   
    Integration with COM, Microsoft Java and Sun Java 
   
    Create both generic and C2-style architectures, using drag-and-drop,
    supporting undo and layout 
   
    Full synchronization between xADL content and Visio format 
   
    Support xADL 2.0's instance, type, structure, and implementation schemas 
   
    Event visualization 
   
    Easy installation and upgradability 
  System Requirements 
  Windows operating system. ( 95, 98, ME, NT, 2000, XP ) 
   Microsoft Visio 2000 or better. ( Any edition: standard, professional,
    technical, or enterprise) 
   Microsoft Java Virtual Machine. (The latest version used to be downloadable from  here . Microsoft no longer distributes its JVM. An old version of Windows (pre-XP SP1a) is needed to get the JVM.)  
   Sun Java environment, JDK 1.4 or better. Make sure its bin directory is in
    your PATH.  
   AT&amp;T Graphviz, an open source visualization package. It can be
    downloaded  here .
    Make sure it's executable, dot, is in your PATH. 
  Installation 
 You should download/install  ArchStudio 3 
and the required software listed above first.  
 This package requires Windows Installer to install. 
    If you are using Windows 2000 or Windows ME or better, you already have
      it. 
     If you are using Windows 9x, you can get Windows Installer from  here . 
     If you are using Windows NT, you can get Windows Installer from  here . 
    Please download and open  this package .It should be installed at the same directory as ArchStudio. The default is \Tools\ArchStudio. 

  User Manual 
 You have to understand the concepts in both Visio and xADL 2.0 to use this
tool. 

 Start the environment 
 You can use ArchStudio 3 to start the environment. (What it does is: start
rmiregistry, start ArchStudio with Sun's Java environment, start Visio Bridge
with Microsoft's Java interpreter (jview)). 

 After you start Visio, you can find a xADL solution in Software solutions
(Software/xADL in the New menu). You can start creating a new xADL document by
choose the appropriate solutions, as you would do in general Visio. 

 Use ArchStudio's FileManager 
 Use the menu in FileManager to create, open, save xADL documents. Visio
solution will not do file input/output directly. 

 Create a new document 
	  Choose New/xADL, you will see a blank document. 
  	 There is an Architecture Menu. Choose "read xADL file" 
  	 Choose one item from the list. The content of that file will be displayed
    graphically in Visio. 
      Open an existing document 
 Just open the document. The system will load the Visio file and parse
the associated xADL document. If there is any incompatibility, it will give an
warning. 

 Create Type 
 You must have a set of component and connector types to design a software
architecture. The types will be displayed as Masters in Stencil, which you can
drag and drop to create an instance for the type. 
 First, you need to create interface type. Choose "Create New Type"
from Architecture Menu. Choose "Interface Type". Type an id and a
description for the interface type, click OK. 
 Second, you can create component types and connector types. Choose
"Create New Type" from Architecture Menu. Choose "Component
Type" or "Connector Type". Type an id, a description, and a
signature. ( The signature should be in this format "DirectionOfInterfaceType,IDofInterfaceType;...;DirectionOfInterfaceType,IDofInterfaceType;
) 
 After you create types, you can either reload the xADL document (through
"read xADL file") if you still have a blank Visio file, or you can
close the old Visio file(The content in ArchStudio is not lost) and then create
a new one, choose "read xADL file" again. In both cases the types will
be used to create new stencils. 

 Component/Connector operations 
 To create a component or connector, drag the icon from the stencil into the
drawing, then type a unique name for it. Hit Esc when you finish typing new
name. 
 To connect a connector to a component or another connector, drag the handle of the connector to
the center of the component or the other connector, release it when the big red
spot appears. 
 To change the name of a component/connector, select it and type the new name.
Hit Esc when you are done. 
 To delete a component/connector, select it and hit Delete. (Deleting
component/connector will also delete connected links.) 
 To delete a link, select it and hit Delete. 
 To view the property of a component/connector, right click on it and select
"Property" from the pop-up menu. 

 Group Operations 
 To create a group, select the members of group (components, connectors, and
subordinate groups), then choose group from Architecture Menu in the Menu bar.
Type the name of the group. 
 To ungroup a group, click the group, then click it again ( The boundary would
change to a different line pattern. ) Right click, choose Ungroup. 

 Using Architecture Browser 
 To toggle the display of architecture browser, select "Architecture
Browser". 
 You can see all the components/connectors/links in the right tree. The group
has its members as the children. All items are sorted alphabetically. Hit on any
node will lead you to corresponding shape in Visio file. 

 Sub Architecture Support 
 Choose "Create New Structure" from Architecture menu. Input an id
and a description for the new ArchStructure. A new page will be created. You can
add new components/connectors/links to this ArchStructure. 
 When create a new component/connector type, you can check "Use current
structure" box in the "Create New Type" dialog box to specify
using current structure as sub architecture for the newly created
component/connector type. 
 When right click on a component/connector, if its type contains sub
architecture, you can choose "GotoSubarchitecture" do bring in a new
page for the sub Architecture. 

 Event Visualization 
 To see the visualization, choose set sender color and set receiver color from
Architecture Menu, set the colors to what you want. Run the events source
application. You will see messages sending between
components and connectors. 

 Other Operations 
 Toggle "Check Unique Name" will enable or disable uniqueness
checking for names. Disable it when you want to do multiple pasts form previous
copies. 
 "Bind xADL file" connects current Visio file to the selected xADL
document, but does not do any loading or checking. 


 

 
   Last Modified: 
		August 1, 2005
   
   
	 
	  
	 
	  
   
 
</body> 