 
Dr. Rina Dechter @ UCI
<body>


  [an error occurred while processing this directive]


   
   
 ICS-175A, Project in AI, Spring 2000  Instructor: Rina Dechter  
Time: 11:00a.m.-1:00p.m.  
Location: CS 213   
  

  Course Goals   

  
Students are required to do project in Artificial Intelligence.  I will
suggest projects focusing on scheduling and timetabling problems that
should be solved by heuristic search and constraint processing
algorithms.  Students can propose their own projects subject to
approval.
  
Necessary reading and some initial instructions will be given in the
first week,  however students will be responsible to close the knowledge
gap in heuristic search and constraint processing algorithms.
  
Groups of 2, 3, or 4 students will be formed for each project.  Final
project:  submit a report + code + demo.



  
  Outline:  


     
Week 2:  Beginning of second week give one paragraph for a project
proposal.
   
Week 4:  Progress report
   
Week 6:  Progress report and partial demo
   
Week 8:  End of eight week final report (draft)
   
Week 10:  Final report + code + demo-presentation     
The following assignment tasks will be considered:
   Assigning reviewers to papers (will be used for demonstration)
  Assigning Instructors to classes
  Assigning TA's to classes
  Timetabling (high-school):  assigning classes and teachers to time
slots.  Real data will be provided whenever possible.   
1.   Assign papers to reviewers:i 
Given a set of preferences on papers (degrees 1-4) assign a fixed number
K of papers to each of $n$ reviewers such that to maximize degree of
statisfaction.  (Example, scheduling reviewers to cp2000)
  
2.   Assignment of instructors to classes: 
Given instructors preferences for teaching 4 classes, two graduate and
two undergraduate, and given class requirements, assign instructor to
classes and to quarters to maximally degree of satisfaction.  (Real
data: scheduling in ICS for year 2000-2001)
  
3.   TA assignments: 
Given class schedules for quarter, the number of TA needed for each
class TA's preferences and qualification, and instructors' choice of
preferred TA, schedule the TA's in a way that maximize some measure of
staisfaction.  (Real data:  scheduling TA's for Spring 2000)
  
4.   Class scheduling: 
The project is to experiment with the application and approach described
in "A Constraint-Based Approach to High-School Timetabling Problems:  A
Case Study" (paper will be given).  The problem is to find a schedule
for classes, classrooms, and teachers for a high-school.
    
  
Measure of satisfaction can be to minimize the number of weighted
constraints violated.  Or, to minimize the maximum number of constraints
violated for each element (TA, professor).
  
Some algorithms written by graduate students are available for binary
CSPs.  Students can try to adapt those to the problem or code the
algorithms from scratch.  Students can also use the constraint
programming language Eclipse.
       
 

        
 School of Information and Computer Science 
 University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3435 
 Dr. Rina Dechter 

 dechter at ics.uci.edu 

  


</body> 