 Grad students participate in global UCSB iCTF hacking competition; place third among U.S. teams     

       

           

           

           

       

               Explore  
    Chair’s Welcome   
	   Seminar Series   
	   Distinguished Lecture Series   
	   Contact Us   
  
   Faculty   
   Research  
    Research Areas   
	   Research Centers   
  
   Graduate Degrees  
    Computer Science Programs   
	   Current Graduate Students   
  
   Undergraduate Degrees   
     Grad students participate in global UCSB iCTF hacking competition; place third among U.S. teams  
 June 22, 2015    Graduate students from the  SPROUT  (Security &amp; Privacy Research OUTfit) and  SSLLAB  (Secure Systems &amp; Software Laboratory) research groups at UCI collaborated as a team, called KHCZUU Labs, to participate in this year’s UC Santa Barbara International Capture The Flag ( iCTF ) competition. The iCTF contest is an annual competition where academic teams pit their skills at cyber attacks and defenses against each other. In security capture-the-flag events, the teams compete to try to find vulnerabilities in programs provided by the organizers and hack other teams to steal “flags,” while defending their own flags. CTF events provide a realistic but safe environment to learn and practice how real-world computer security works. 
    
Even though most of the UCI team members were new to the competition, KHCZUU still managed to place third out of the U.S. teams and 31st overall, out of nearly 100 participating teams. “The whole team is looking forward to next year’s competition and plans to practice the necessary computer security skills in the meantime,” says UCI Ph.D. candidate Stephen Crane. “For most on the team, this was their first experience with capture-the-flag-style competitions, and the competition was an amazing learning experience for everyone who participated.” 
 Congratulations to everyone who competed on this year’s KHCZUU team: Brian Belleville, Stephen Crane, Sky Faber, Cesar Ghali, Julian Lettner, Ekin Oguz, Mohaned Qunaibit, Marc Schlosberg, and Stijn Volckaert (visiting scholar from Ghent University). 
 Watch a time-lapse video of the competition  here . 

    « Tsudik Co-Authors Award-Winning Student Paper on ‘Violating Consumer Anonymity’    Info Security Magazine: “NSA: Business as Usual” (Tsudik quoted) »    		 Latest news 
		  
				 Tsudik’s biometrics security research paper featured in February issue of CACM 
							 January 30, 2017 
						 
					 
				 OC Register: ICS alumnus, professional poker player Jason Les competing against a bot for $200K 
							 January 13, 2017 
						 
					 
				 Master of Computer Science Program Ranks 36th nationally by TFE Times 
							 January 12, 2017 
						 
					 
				 Cardiovascular Business: “NIH provides researchers $8.6 million to map heart’s anatomy” (Fowlkes mentioned) 
							 January 5, 2017 
						 
					 
				 Two ICS Ph.D. students receive 2017 UCI Public Impact Fellowships 
							 December 16, 2016 
						 
				   			  News Archive  
		    			 

				 
						   
				 

				 
					  © 2017 UC Regents 
					     Feedback  
					     Privacy Policy  
					  

			 
	  </body> 