 ICS 31 Assignments<body>
  ICS 31 • DAVID G. KAY • UC IRVINE • FALL 2016  
   Assignments   
 

  Read this introduction at the beginning of the course, but read it again in a couple of weeks.  
  Each week there will be a lab assignment due on Friday; typically the following week's assignment will also be available on Friday.  [If you add the class late, you are responsible for arranging with your TA a schedule for making up the labs you missed.  The early labs are pretty easy; it would be unfortunate to get a zero for them.]
    
  
  
  Each assignment will have two parts:  
   Preparation, which you will do individually over the weekend. These will usually involve some reading and a few short problems to introduce you to a topic and help prepare you to ask questions and work in the lab the following week.   
    Lab work, which you will do in pairs and submit electronically at the end of your lab session the following Friday.   
   The lab  assignments will require you to do pair programming:
  You and a classmate will work together at one computer, following  specific guidelines .  This makes the scheduled lab
  hours on Monday/Wednesday/Friday particularly valuable as a time when everyone
  in the class is certain to be available (along with the TA and lab tutors).  
 At the beginning of each assignment (most weeks on Friday) you will choose a partner for the next lab. For each assignment, you will choose a new partner, someone you haven't worked with before. The  ICS 31 Partner App  will help with this. It works like Facebook: You can invite someone to partner with you; the partnership is formed only if they accept the invitation. You can't just partner up informally; you must follow the process in the app to get credit for the partnership and the work you do. 
 After you turn in each assignment (most weeks on Friday) you will evaluate your partner for that lab, again using the  partner app . 
 You must evaluate each partnership; filling out an evaluation counts towards your participation score. 
   We encourage you to talk with each other and
  help each other understand how to do the assignments.  There are some limits,
  though.  Everyone should read the  policies for collaboration and independent work .  (Really; read it. People who ignore it risk serious trouble.) 
  Don't expect every answer to every problem to be immediately obvious. If you find yourself stuck on a problem, take these five steps:  (1) Re-read the problem; (2) follow the  design recipe  (which we will describe in class); (3) go back and look at how you (or we) solved similar problems; (4) recheck the explanation in the textbook or lecture notes; and (5) if you've spent three solid minutes thinking about the problem without making any progress, it's time to ask somebody (a classmate, TA, tutor, or Piazza). If you're making progress, if you have an educated guess (not a blind guess) about what to try next, then keep going—we're not saying that every problem can be solved completely in three minutes. But after you've spent three minutes of hard thinking with no progress and no idea of what to do next, more thinking alone isn't likely to help.  We want to minimize your frustration; nobody should be spending hours working on a problem without making progress. If you're stuck,  we (or sometimes your classmates) can often get you past your trouble pretty quickly.  (If you haven't followed the steps above, though—especially reading the problem and following the design recipe—we'll probably just send you back to do those steps.  You have to do your part, but after that we're happy to step in and do ours.)   
  Assignments:</strong> 
    Lab Assignment 0  (due on September 23): Setup, Python, IDLE, Checkmate.  

     Lab Assignment 1  (due on September 30): Python expressions and types. 
  Lab Assignment 2  (due on October 7): Input and output, simple lists, namedtuples, drawing with tkinter. 
       Lab Assignment 3  (due on October 14): Programmer-defined functions, combining data structures, control structures for selection and repetition, drawing with tkinter. 

     Lab Assignment 4  (due on October 21): More on programmer-defined functions,  control structures for selection and repetition, combining data structures, drawing with tkinter. 
        Lab Assignment 5  (due on October 28): Creating, combining, processing namedtuples, lists, lists of namedtuples, namedtuples containing lists; text processing. 
    Lab Assignment 6  (due on November 4): Random numbers, printing formatted output (histograms), cryptography and Caesar ciphers (I), text processing (text statistics), enhancing the restaurants program. 
    
      Lab Assignment 7  (due on November 11, which is a university holiday; no classes meet and the labs will be closed, so if you won't be on campus arrange with your partner to complete it on Thursday): Random names, cryptanalysis, file copying with statistics. 
   
  
      Lab Assignment 8  (due on November 18):
    Reading and writing files, mapping/filtering/reducing operations on lists of namedtuples, ICStunes program, Stage I of the Bed and Breakfast program. 
    
   
     Lab Assignment 9  (due on Wednesday, November 30):
    Two-dimensional tables (quiz scoring), dictionaries, Anteater Bed and Breakfast.    This assignment spans 10 days over the Thanksgiving weekend to give you some flexibility with your holiday schedule. Choose a partner whose schedule is compatible with yours; if one of you won't be in lab on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving, for example, arrange in advance another time to spend a couple of hours working. 
  
 
   

   David G. Kay ,  kay@uci.edu      
Sunday, November 20, 2016 11:33 AM
  
</body> 