 CS 295--Run-time Techniques for Efficient and Reliable Program Execution 

 

  CS 142 (b):
Compiler Construction Project    

  Winter
2013, Tue Thurs 8:00-9:20am, ICS 180     

  Instructor:
 Harry Xu , Office hour: by
appointment, Credits: 4    

  TA:
Gulfem Savrun Yeniceri (gsavruny@uci.edu), Office: CS 444    

   Schedule      

   Test cases     

   Project
FAQ     

   Useful resource  (pointer tutorials, JVM specs, X86
instruction set, etc.)    

  Course
Overview     

  This
is a heavyweight project class that only programming geeks would love to take.
The entire class is nothing but a project to build a Java compiler. The
compiler takes .class files ( bytecode ) as input and
generates X86 executable code. The course will give you hands-on experience
with compiler construction and optimizations.    

  Prerequisites       

 CS 142 (a) 
and C/C++ programming experience.    

  Course
Organization       

  The
course has five separate phases, and each phase is constituted by a lecture
(given by me or the TA) that introduces the goal of the phase as well as a
number of lab sessions.    

       

   Phase 1   : Parsing .class files    

   Phase 2   : Building a Java interpreter    

   Phase 3   : Building SSA    

   Phase 4   : Developing SSA-based
optimizations (e.g., register allocation and other dataflow-based
optimizations)    

   Phase 5   : Generating X86 machine code    

  Grading       

  Each
student needs to give a demo presentation on his/her project at the end of the
quarter. I will provide a set of simple Java programs to test your compiler.
You can get at least a B if your compiler can do phase 1, 2, and 3. If phase 4
and 5 are implemented and your compiler passes all my test cases, you will get
an A. If your compiler does everything and has one additional dataflow
optimization implemented, you will get an A+.    

 Acknowledgments 

  Thanks
to Michael Franz, Shannon Alfaro, Mason Chang, and Eric Hennigan for providing
advice and help with this course.    

  

   

       

 

</body> 