 Representing events – Ramesh Jain 
	
	 
				 
		 
								 
				   							
		 Search 
		
					  
								 
									Ramesh Jain								 
							 
														 Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher 
																
				 
	 	
		
	    About Ramesh 
   News  
	  Events  
  
  Towards Weaving the Visual Web  
  Research 
   Books  
	  Patents  
	  Presentations  
	  Projects  
	  Research Papers 
	   Computer Vision  
		  Experiential Computing  
		  Multimedia Information Management  
	  
  
  Teaching 
   Current Courses  
	  Past Courses  
  
  Entrepreneurship 
   Current Companies  
	  Past Companies  
  
  Partners 
   Current Students  
	  Past Students  
	  Collaborators  
  
  Professional/Social 
   Services  
	  Recognitions  
	  Interviews  
  
  Personal 
   Affiliations  
	  Education  
	  Favorite Books  
	  Favorite Quotes  
  
  Digital India: A potentially transformative opportunity  
  Navigation    
					 

 
	

 
    	 
    				Representing events    			 
  			 
    			 Recently I coauthored a research paper with G. Utz Westermann in International Journal of Semantic Web and Information Systems.  The abstract of the paper is given below and the  paper is available here . 
  The nature of information has changed significantly in the last two decades. Now information 
is multimedia, sensitive to its spatio-temporal roots, live, and dynamic. Current database and 
search technology is very limited in addressing organization, management, and access of 
emerging information systems. In this paper, we address some of the fundamental issues that 
must be addressed in general multimedia information management systems. We present 
multimedia electronic chronicles (e-chronicles) as an example of emerging systems that need 
such technology. We believe that to deal with dynamic information, events should be used as the 
fundamental basis in organizing and accessing information. Event models used in our approach 
capture the semantics involved in supporting e-chronicles. Our ideas are demonstrated in the 
context of an e-chronicle that is being implemented for a reconnaissance application using 
multiple disparate sensors.  
 This paper gives our thoughts on how event information should be organized.  We have implemented this representation and we are using it in multiple applications.  People who may be interested in using this can contact me and we will make the system available subject to university rules. 
  			 
  			 	        			
    			 
    				 By  Ramesh   |
    				  June 16, 2006   |
    				             		  Experiential Computing ,  Technical Thoughts   |
             	 
    				             		  No Comments   |
             	 		          				
    			 
    		 

  						    ←  Digital Photo Album  
				  Capturing Experiences  →   
			  

	
	
		 
		 Leave a Reply   Cancel reply   			
				  Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  *    Comment     Name  *    
  Email  *    
  Website   
  			
			 
	
 
		  


 
	


  


	    

	   
	   	
	   
	    
				 
			 
				    Copyright © 2017   Ramesh Jain   |  Theme by:   Theme Horse   |  Powered by:   WordPress    
			   Back to Top  		 

	 

</body> 