  ICS Department News Page <body>

 
      


 
 
          

	

	Volume: 1   Issue: 2  

	 

	 

	

	April 2, 1997 

	 
	     
     
 
	

	   
	 
	   Table of Contents 
	   
	
Keynote Speech by Professor Lathrop at International
Conference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology
	 

	   
	
Best Paper award to ICS researcher at  6th Joint
 Modular Languages Conference 
	 

	   
	
New book ranks UC Irvine among nation's top 20 public research
                          universities 
	 

	   
	
ICS researchers invited to NSF workshops on Human-Centred Systems
	 

	   
	
Appointments and Honors
	 





	   Previous Issues 
	   
	   




	  
	 
	
	
Keynote Speech by Professor Lathrop at International
Conference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology
	
	 
	 
	 

	
Professor Rick Lathrop will be a keynote speaker at this
summer's International Conference on Intelligent Systems for
Molecular Biology, to be held in 
Halkidiki, Greece, on June 21-25, 1997.
The talk will survey progress in protein structure prediction by
sequence-structure alignment and fold recognition ("threading")
methods, including discussion of Professor Lathrop's recent
work in this area.


	  
	   

	  
	 
	
Best Paper award to ICS researcher at  6th Joint
 Modular Languages Conference 

	 
	 
	 

	
Thomas Kistler, a graduate student in ICS working with
Professor Michael Franz,  won the Best Presentation Award at the 6th Joint
 Modular Languages Conference in Linz, Austria, for his presentation of the
 paper "Dynamic Runtime Optimization". This paper describes 
current research in this area in the Franz group
 and appears in the proceedings as Thomas'
 single-authored contribution.
At the conference, all attendees received a ballot on which they marked the
 best three of 24 presentations, and Thomas received the highest number of
 votes. At the awards ceremony, he received a hefty prize sponsored by
 Addison-Wesley:  copies of each of the complete Java book series.


	  
	   



	  
	 
	
New book ranks UC Irvine among nation's top 20 public research
                          universities 

	 
	 
	 

	

 UC Irvine has been ranked among the nation's top 20 public research
                   universities and identified as one of the "rising new elites" in a new book called "The Rise of American
                          Research Universities: Elites and Challengers in the Postwar Era."
                              UCI is ranked 17th among rising public research universities in the study by Hugh Davis Graham, a
                          history professor at Vanderbilt University, and Nancy Diamond, a graduate student at the University of
                          Maryland at Baltimore County. This ranking is based on a combined index evaluating public universities'
                          science, social science, and arts and humanities programs.

  

 When ranked by the science index only, UCI
                          placed third behind UC San Diego and UC Berkeley, respectively.
                              The study also places UCI seventh on a list of rising public universities that had not previously been
                          ranked among the nation's top 25 (according to three major comparative studies conducted from
                          1960-1982).
                              "This is yet another ranking that places UCI among the nation's top research universities. UCI's rapid
                          rise in stature reflects the high quality of our faculty as well as the emphasis on innovation in research and
                          educational programs," said Chancellor Laurel L. Wilkening.
  
                              The "Rise of American Research Universities" study (published by The Johns Hopkins University
                          Press) looks at 203 research universities from 1945 to 1990. The researchers measured per capita faculty
                          research productivity, examining the creation of new knowledge in everything from medical science to
                          classics.
                              The criteria used to measure productivity were: money received from federal grants, number of
                          articles published by faculty members in all scholarly areas, number of articles published in top-rated
                          scientific and social science journals, and fellowships in the arts and humanities.
                              By focusing on per capita research achievement, the researchers reduced the advantages of size and
                          "soft" reputational data. The study's ranking method rewards institutions that show balanced research
                          strength across the academic spectrum of the sciences, social sciences and humanities. However, the
                          researchers noted that the driving force behind UCI's "rapid ascent" in national rankings is its strong
                          reliance on biomedical research.



	  
	   



	  
	 
	
ICS researchers invited to NSF workshops on Human-Centred Systems

	 
	 
	 

	
Professor Jonathan Grudin, while on leave as Visiting Professor of
Informatics at the University of Oslo, was invited to attend two
working meetings in Washington devoted to aspects of the context of
computing technology. In February, the three-day NSF Workshop on
Human-Centered Systems: Information, Interactivity, and Intelligence 
explored approaches to addressing the challenges of producing usable, useful
technology. In April, a two-day NSF Grantees Workshop on Information
Technology and Organizations will review research on the actual and
potential effects of technology on organizations and society. Professor
Mark Ackerman also attended the workshop on Human-Centered Systems.

	  
	   



	  
	 
	
Appointments and Honors

	 
	 
	 

	
    Professor David Rosenblum was appointed to the editorial board
of   Software Process Improvement and Practice   and was 
made a Senior Member of the IEEE.
   Professor Padhraic Smyth was appointed an action editor
of the   Machine Learning Journal .
   
	   











	 
	 
	
	Previous Issues

	 
	 
	  

	       January 1997 Issue
	    
	   
    
Editor: Padhraic Smyth    Information and Computer Science    University of California, Irvine,   
Irvine, CA 92697-3425  
Phone: (714) 824-7403  
Fax: (714) 824-4056 
 
 
   
</body> 