 research highlights @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>

 This site will look much better in a browser that supports  web standards , but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device. 
   

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










      Bren school home  &gt;  Faculty  &gt;  Research highlights  
    
 Research highlights 
 
  
Every day, our faculty and students make important research contributions that bring real and positive change to people worldwide.
Below are examples of the life-changing work conducted at the Bren School of ICS.
     Adaptive Software and Hardware for Distributed, Networked Embedded Systems    Algorithmic Living    Applying Machine Learning and Advanced Computation to Cancer    AsterixDB: Big Data Management 2.0    CloudProtect    Collaboration Success Wizard    Fault Comprehension    Gene Regulation Network (GRN) Inference    Machine Learning for Text and Social Network Data over Time    Modeling Languages for Computational Biology and AI    Modeling and Simulation of Biologically-Realistic Brain Networks    Multi-tasking in the Workplace    Robust and Flexible Statistical Models for Environmental Epidemiology Studies    Satware    Sherlock    Similarity-based Program Analysis    Software Engineering for Sustainability    Statistical Models for Brain Connectivity    Technologies for Autism: Activity Coach    The I-Sensorium Project    Trust in Software Development Teams    Values in Design    WebRTC Benchmarking and Optimization        Adaptive Software and Hardware for Distributed, Networked Embedded Systems    The project investigates adaptive strategies to deal with dynamic application environments for distributed, networked embedded systems, covering diverse applications such as the Internet-of-Things low-power mobile systems.  Department of Computer Science      Algorithmic Living    All of the data collected about us is used to make decisions about what sort of products and financial offers we receive. How does this manifest in our self-image, and what are the historical and legal implications?  Department of Informatics      Applying Machine Learning and Advanced Computation to Cancer    In this project, researchers have identified an elusive pocket on the surface of the p53 protein that can be targeted by cancer-fighting drugs.  Department of Computer Science      AsterixDB: Big Data Management 2.0    AsterixDB is a full-function, open-source, next-generation Big Data Management System that is designed to scale to very large shared clusters.  Department of Computer Science      CloudProtect    CloudProtect seeks to develop a middleware so users can employ encryption methods to control risk of data exposure in Cloud-based applications.  Department of Computer Science      Collaboration Success Wizard    This online diagnostic survey looks at how to improve collaborations on projects where workers are spread out geographically. The survey probes factors that may strengthen or weaken the collaboration and provides reports that help build productive collaborations.  Department of Informatics      Fault Comprehension    When software fails it must be "debugged," a largely manual process that determines why the program failed. This project is creating tools and visualizations that give an automated diagnosis to help software developers create effective and efficient software.  Department of Informatics      Gene Regulation Network (GRN) Inference    In collaboration with UCI biologists, researchers will use their pioneering GRN mathematical models along with machine learning-based inference methods to computationally understand the gene-regulation network that determines early endoderm patterning in vertebrates.  Department of Computer Science      Machine Learning for Text and Social Network Data over Time    Researchers are developing new statistical machine learning algorithms that can automatically extract useful information from both large bodies of and large social network data sets.  Department of Computer Science      Modeling Languages for Computational Biology and AI    This project seeks to exploit useful overlap between formally defined scientific modeling languages researchers have developed for computational biology, including machine-learning techniques for model reduction.  Department of Computer Science      Modeling and Simulation of Biologically-Realistic Brain Networks    In collaboration with neuroscientists, this project develops modeling and simulation frameworks for exploring large spiking neural networks, with a specific focus on visually guided motion perception, learning, tracking and autonomous navigation.  Department of Computer Science      Multi-tasking in the Workplace    Modern technology has helped create workplaces filled with interruptions, influencing work flow and productivity.  This project studies information workers to figure out ways of mitigating the impact of constant interruptions.  Department of Informatics      Robust and Flexible Statistical Models for Environmental Epidemiology Studies    Researchers are developing new statistical methods to flexibly estimate the association between spatially and/or temporally correlated environmental exposures and the risk of clinical outcomes in humans.  Department of Statistics      Satware    This scalable data collection, querying and analysis technology allows for the creation of situational awareness applications from across diverse, multimodal sensors and data sources.  Department of Computer Science      Sherlock    A pay-as-you-go data cleaning framework, Sherlock can improve data quality in (near) real-time application contexts.  Department of Computer Science      Similarity-based Program Analysis    This project explores the idea of using "program similarity" to find better heuristics that require a lot less time and effort to find a solution. Program similarity can be defined in a number of ways and part of this research is seeking to find intrinsic program characteristics that can be used for this purpose.  Department of Computer Science      Software Engineering for Sustainability    There is growing awareness that living within the Earth's means is crucial to humanity. This sustainability has been focused on engineering advances to reduce waste and energy use. But information and computing technology could also play a key role. This project seeks to understand the potential of information technology in helping people make smarter decisions and ways in which to make IT software more sustainable.  Department of Informatics      Statistical Models for Brain Connectivity    Under the context of decision making, this project seeks to develop novel statistical approaches for identifying brain connectivity features from high dimensional multimodal imaging spatio-temporal data that can predict human behavior.  Department of Statistics      Technologies for Autism: Activity Coach    For many people living with autism spectrum disorder, remembering detailed schedules can be a challenge. A well planned day can be disrupted by a late bus or cancelled work. ActivityCoach, a mobile application, provides support that adapts to changing schedules.  Department of Informatics      The I-Sensorium Project    Parts of the UCI campus are equipped with a variety of experimental sensing, networking, storage and computing technologies to convert the campus into a "living laboratory." Data from I-Sensorium infrastructure is driving experimental research on pervasive systems, mobile computing, situation awareness, big data management, data streams, multimodal event detection and privacy.  Department of Computer Science      Trust in Software Development Teams    Teams that are productive tend to have a great amount of trust among the team members. In virtual teams, trust is difficult to establish. This project explores how trust is formed among team members, and it's creating tools to help teams that are spread out geographically develop trust.  Department of Informatics      Values in Design    This project seeks to understand the personal and cultural values we design into our technologies, and how these technologies allow us to express our values. For example, how do we balance values of efficiency and security with a need for friendliness and fun when we design a new electronic marketplace?  Department of Informatics      WebRTC Benchmarking and Optimization    WebRTC is an exciting new standard being developed to provide real-time communication capabilities between browsers. It is a major component of the HTML5, the newest version of HTML protocol under development today. This project develops methodology and software for performing multi-platform, browser-independent performance benchmarking. The benchmarking results will be used to optimize and improve WebRTC performance on mobile devices.  Department of Computer Science     
 
 
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 

</body> 