 Seventh Homework<body>
  
 
          
 
 This assignment is due on Monday, March 3.  
 
  (a)  Code up Alex Thornton's Project
#5 from ICS 22, available on the web at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~thornton/ics22/LabManual/GoneToTheMovies/   .
 This project lets you write a simulator of people standing in line at a
movie theater.  This is a specific instance of a situation that comes up
frequently, not just in the real world but also in computer systems.  Computer
networks, in particular, consist in some sense of client requests (like
your browser requesting a web page or your computer sending a document to
a shared printer) and servers satisfying them.  When the server can't
satisfy each request immediately, the waiting requests are typically queued
up.  Determining the overall performance of a network (how long do requests
have to wait, how many can be satisfied per minute) is a crucial task, since
decisions about the size and number of servers and the necessary bandwidth
depend on that analysis (and on a more practical level, if your web site
makes visitors wait annoyingly and your competitor's site serves them
quickly, your competitor will receive more traffic, be more successful,
and have a better chance of being bought out for $100 million by AOL).  
 
 This project analyzes the performance of a
queueing system experimentally, by simulating it.  Queueing system performance
can also be analyzed mathematically, which is the focus of a subdiscipline
of computer science called queueing theory.  Take just a second to reflect
on the differences between experimental and mathematical analysis:  What
are the advantages and disadvantages of each?  
 
 Of course you must test your code thoroughly,
but you are not required to use JUnit.  
 
 There are more design decisions for you to
make in this program than in the previous ones.  It's a wise idea to
attend section early in the project, to discuss various approaches and make
sure you're on the right track.  
 
  (b)   For a little extra credit, make
your simulation more realistic by accommodating some variability.  But before
you start, save a completed, correct copy of your required version and make
any extra credit enhancements on a fresh copy.  You'll turn in the required
and extra credit versions separately.  
 
 We all know that not every transaction (at
a ticket window, in the supermarket, or on the Web) takes the same amount
of time.  Instead, there's a range.  
 
 Change your program so that instead of a fixed
transaction time for each window, the user can specify a minimum and a maximum
transaction time, with the program choosing a value at random from that
range.  (Look up   java.util.Random  .)  
 
 You could also generate customers at random
for an even more realistic simulation.  
 
  (c)   Continue to think about your optional
GUI-building project, part  (d)  of the Sixth Homework.  It will be
due in about a week and a half.  You may build a GUI onto the movie theater
simulator if you like.  
 
  What to turn in:   Turn in your Java
files via Checkmate.  
 
 Written by David G. Kay, Winter 2003, to build
on Alex Thornton's "Gone to the Movies," an ICS 22 project.  
 </body> 