 Chimera's Technical Papers<body>

     Local Site Map 
   Overview  
  Architecture  
  Concepts  
  Integration  
     Papers      

     

  Chimera Papers  

 A variety of papers about Chimera are available for download (or, in
some cases, on-line browsing). Each paper is listed below in chronological
order. Each listing contains a description of the paper and a set of available
document formats. In order to view the PDF version of a document, the free
 Adobe Acrobat
Reader  is required. 

      Chimera: Hypertext for Heterogeneous Software Environments  describes
the underlying concepts and architecture of the Chimera 1.0 system. It is
included here as a historical document of the Chimera project. This paper
was presented at the European Conference on Hypermedia Technology in Edinburgh,
Scotland, on September 22, 1994.     HTML  
 n/a     Postscript  
 232k     PDF  
 103k     Extending User-Interface Toolkits with Hypermedia Functionality  describes
a technique for providing a default level of hypermedia services to user-interface
toolkit applications. In a nutshell, the technique makes a user-interface
toolkit a client of an open hypermedia system. This results in  hypermedia-aware 
widgets which provide users access to hypermedia functionality within the
application. This paper was presented at the 30th Hawaii International Conference
on System Sciences in Wailea on the island of Maui, Hawaii on January 8,
1997.     HTML  
 n/a     Postscript  
 211k     PDF  
 83k     Integrating Open Hypermedia Systems with the World Wide Web  describes
our work in exploring the benefits of WWW protocols within the context of
Chimera. It is the first paper to discuss aspects of Chimera 2.0. While
not a complete description, it highlights the issues which lead to the development
of Chimera 2.0. It also includes a useful taxonomy of related work performed
in the area of OHS-WWW integration. This paper will be presented at the
Hypertext'97 conference in Southampton, UK, on April 10, 1997.    HTML 
 Not yet available     Postscript  
 189k     PDF  
 103k     An Architectural Model for Application Integration in Open Hypermedia
Environments  presents a framework for modeling third-party application
integrations with open hypermedia systems. The framework can characterize
applications prior to integration and can supply guidance for selecting
a final integration architecture. This paper will be presented at the Hypertext'97
conference in Southampton, UK, on April 9, 1997.    HTML 
 Not yet available     Postscript  
 841k     PDF  
 342k        Local Site Map 
   Overview  
  Architecture  
  Concepts  
  Integration  
     Papers       

 This page is part of the  Chimera 
web site. 
Send feedback and questions to  Ken
Anderson . 
</body> 