 Spiral Tilings<body>

 
     
 

  Spiral Tilings 

The usual definition of a  tiling 
involves a partition of space into pieces that are congruent to
each other, but there has been some study of  similarity
tilings  in which this congruence requirement is relaxed, so
that the tiles need only be similar to each other. One possible way
of forming such tilings is to arrange the tiles in a  spiral :


   

 A well-known example of such a spiral tiling is formed by
squares, with adjacent squares in the spiral having sizes in the
golden ratio to each other. 

   

 A related tiling using a 1 by sqrt(2) rectangle is the basis for
European paper size standards, and K. S. Brown's page on " the golden
triangle " hints at the existence of another tiling with
equilateral triangles the size ratio of which is a root of the
polynomial  x  3 - x -1. Brown's web site also
includes a description of  another spiral tiling
by 30-60-90 right triangles . 

 What is a good definition of a spiral tiling? What shapes can be
used as the tiles in spiral tilings? How many neighbors can each
tile have? What are the symmetries of these tilings? 

 Complex Numbers 

A spiral is formed by a combination of two simultaneous motions:
expansion and twisting around the center of the spiral. 

 The same combination of motions arises in multiplying complex
numbers  a + b i. If we think of these numbers as forming
a plane, then multiplying all the points of any configuration in
that plane by  a + b i can be carried out geometrically,
by expanding the configuration away from the origin by a factor of
sqrt( a  2 + b  2 ), and simultanously
twisting the configuration around the origin by an angle of
tan -1 ( a / b ). 

 For this reason it makes sense to use complex number
multiplication to represent the symmetries of a spiral tiling. 

 Definitions 

 We define a  tile  to be an open connected subset of the
complex number plane. 

 We define a  tiling  to be a set of disjoint tiles, the
closure of which covers the entire complex number plane. 

 We define a  complex symmetry  of a tiling to be a complex
number such that multiplying each tile by that number produces
another tile of the same tiling. 

 We define a  spiral tiling  to be a tiling in which for any
two tiles  s  and  t , some complex symmetry of the
tiling maps  s  to  t . 

 The last definition can be rephrased as saying that the
symmetries act  transitively  on the tiles. Note that these
definitions are different from the notion of a spiral tiling used
by Grünbaum and Shephard [Tilings and Patterns, W.H. Freeman
1987, pp. 512-516], which does not involve similarity and is
generally rather less well-defined than the above (the "I know it
when I see it" test applies). Some material closer to what we have
here can be found in the same book [pp. 520-522]. 

 Uniqueness of Tile Mappings 

We know from the definition that, for any two tiles  s  and
 t  in a spiral tiling, some complex number  z  satisfies
the set-theoretic equation  s*z = t . Can there be more
than one such  z ? 

 Consider the distances d( s ) and d( t ) of each from
the origin. Since complex multiplication acts on these distances,
the magnitude of  z  must be d( t )/d( s ). What
about its orientation? 

 Suppose  s*y = s*z = t . Then
s*( z / y )=s, so  s  is invariant by some rotation
about the origin. The only such tiles can be annuli in which the
two boundary components are similarly invariant and similar to each
other. 

   

 We treat this case as degenerate; from now on we assume that it
does not occur in our tilings. So in a non-degenerate spiral
tiling, the symmetry  z  mapping  s  to  t  is
uniquely defined. We denote this symmetry by  t / s . 

 Symmetries of Spiral Tilings 

The symmetries of a spiral tiling, like any other collection of
symmetries, form a  group : the product of two symmetries is
another symmetry, as is the inverse of any symmetry, and products
are associative. The group product here is just complex number
multiplication. Because of the uniqueness of the mapping from one
tile to another, the group must be  discrete : any symmetry
 z  has a neighborhood in the complex number plane that
contains only that symmetry. For, if  z  maps some point  
x  in the interior of tile  s  to the corresponding point
in the interior of tile  t , any other complex number
sufficiently near  z  would also map  x  into the
interior of tile  t , by continuity of complex multiplication.
We can summarize this conclusion by saying that the group G of
symmetries of a spiral tiling must be a discrete subgroup of
multiplication of nonzero complex numbers. 

  If we choose a reference point 1 in some tile containing that
point, the images of that point 1*G=G give one reference point in
each tile, so the members of G are in one-to-one correspondence
with the tiles of the spiral tiling. We can think of each tile as
forming a canonical neighborhood or  fundamental domain 
around each symmetry  z . 

 The Exponential Map 

The function exp( z ) has the nice property that it translates
addition to multiplication:
exp( y + z )=exp( y )*exp( z ). The inverse
function log( z ) should therefore translate multiplication to
addition, so we can use it to understand the multiplicative
symmetry group G in terms of the simpler addition operation. 

 There is a slight complication: exp( z ) is not one-to-one,
since exp( z )=exp( z +2pi). Therefore a more-or-less
arbitrary choice has to be made about which value to use as the
inverse. In our case, we are interested in set-theoretic inverses,
so we use the notation log(G) to denote the set {  z  :
exp( z ) in G }. 

 Then if G is a multiplicative subgroup of the complex numbers,
log(G) is an additive subgroup. And if G is a discrete set, log(G)
is also discrete. So if G is the set of symmetries of a spiral
tiling, log(G) is a discrete subgroup of the additive complex
numbers. There are only two possibilities for what such a subgroup
can look like: either it is a   
lattice  , or it is the set of integer multiples K z  of
a single generator  z . 

 Note finally that 2 pi i is a member of log(G), since it is in
log(1). So if log(G) is a lattice, it is a lattice containing the
vector 2 pi i. And if log(G) is of the form K z , then  
z  must be purely imaginary, so G (which consists of the powers
of exp( z )) must consist purely of rotations. If so, we have
another degenerate case in which some finite number of infinite
wedges tile the plane by fitting together at the origin. 

   

 Therefore from now on, we can assume that any non-degenerate
spiral tiling is of the form exp(T) where T is a periodic
(congruence) tiling having a translation by 2 pi i among its
lattice of translational symmetries. 

 Neighborhoods in Spiral Tilings 

How many tiles can surround a given tile in a spiral tiling? By
transitivity of the symmetry group, the answer is independent of
which tile is chosen. Some manipulation with  Euler
characteristics  shows that the number of neighbors can only be
two, four, or six. 

 In more detail, if one glues the edges of the tile together in a
pattern formed by how it connects to its neighbors, one gets a  
manifold , a space which near each point "looks like" the plane.
The analysis above, showing that the tiling comes from applying the
exponential map to a periodic tiling, shows that this manifold must
be topologically equivalent to a torus, so Euler's formula tells us
that V-E+F=0, where F is the number of faces in the manifold (just
one), E is the number of edges, and V is the number of vertices.
Now if the tile has k neighbors, it contributes k sides of edges to
E, but each edge has two sides so E=k/2 and k must be even.
Further, each vertex has at least three ends of edges, and each
edge has two ends, so 2E&lt;=3V, which combined with Euler's
formula E=V+1 implies that E&lt;=3. 

 The case that k=2 gives us our third type of degenerate tiling.
This case occurs when the lattice log(G) is generated by the two
values pi i and  x  for some real  x , so the only
symmetries of the tiling are expansions (without rotation) and
reflection through the origin. The tiles in this degenerate case
must be infinite strips, the two boundaries of which are similar to
each other. 

   

 In the remaining cases, the tiles are combinatorially equivalent
to quadrilaterals or hexagons (they may take other shapes,
including triangles and pentagons, but they have either four or six
neighbors, and are adjacent to four or six vertices where more than
two tiles meet). This is a key difference from periodic tilings,
which also allow tiles with three neighbors. 

 Which Quadrilaterals Tile? 

We now discuss necessary conditions for a polygon to form a spiral
tiling. Because of the analysis above, the most important polygons
to consider are quadrilaterals and hexagons. We don't consider
triangles and pentagons separately, as in any spiral tiling such a
polygon would have to have vertices placed along its sides, and
could therefore be considered a type of quadrilateral or hexagon
with certain angles equal to pi. 

 As described by Thurston [Three-Dimensional Geometry and
Topology, unpublished manuscript, 1990, p. 137] any quadrilateral
can be fitted into similar copies of itself in a way that locally
looks like part of a spiral tiling. This construction is known as
the "developing map" and is a special case of a construction that
works for arbitrary manifolds. However, there are some nonlocal
requirements on the shape of quadrilaterals that form spiral
tilings. If one applies the developing map construction to an
arbitrary quadrilateral, the result usually overlaps itself or has
cracks that can not be filled. 

   

 The space of all quadrilateral shapes can be specified by four
parameters (e.g. two angles and two edge lengths). It seems that
the requirement that the developing map meets up with itself
corresponds to a restriction to a two-dimensional subspace of the
quadrilateral shapes. Is there a reasonable way to describe that
subspace? 

 Which Hexagons Tile? 

One method of investigating spiral tilings of hexagons is to
observe that, since any such tiling is the exponential image of a
periodic tiling, it has a fundamental quadrilateral. There is no
loss of generality in assuming that the vertices of this
quadrilateral are vertices of the hexagonal tiling. 

   

 So it must be possible to  
dissect  the hexagon into pieces that can be reassembled
(allowing similarity) into a quadrilateral that forms a spiral
tiling. One simple necessary condition for the tiling to exist is
that one must be able to group the hexagon vertices into two
triples, each triple adding to 2 pi. Do these two triples have to
alternate around the hexagon, as they do in the tiling above? What
other conditions are necessary? 

 Summary 

We have defined spiral similarity tilings in terms of a transitive
group of complex multiplications. After identifying three possible
degenerate forms of tiling (nested annuli, finitely many infinite
wedges, and infinitely many infinite strips) we showed that the
remaining spiral tilings have tiles combinatorially equivalent to
quadrilaterals meeting four at a vertex, or hexagons meeting three
at a vertex. These tilings are generated by applying the
exponential map to periodic tilings with certain restrictions on
the lattice of translational symmetries. Finally, we began a
preliminary classification of the quadrilaterals and hexagons that
form spiral tilins. 

  
 From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational and recreational geometry.  David Eppstein ,  Theory Group ,  ICS ,  UC
Irvine . 

  Last update: 
.  
 
</body> 