 WEBDAV WG Washington IETF Minutes<body>

 WEBDAV WORKING GROUP 
 Meeting Minutes 
Washington, DC IETF 
December 8-9, 1997 

 The WEBDAV working group met two times at the Washington IETF meeting,
on Monday and Tuesday, December 8-9, 1997, and 78 people attended one
or both of the sessions. The chair was Jim Whitehead, and notes were
recorded by Alec Dun, Del Jensen, and Rohit Khare, then edited by Jim
Whitehead.

  DASL MINI-BOF 

 The Monday session began with a mini-BOF on the topic of WEBDAV
searching and locating (DASL), led by Saveen Reddy. Saveen began by
presenting slides on the goals of searching and locating:

   Efficient searching
  Properties &amp; content
  Data model for resources
  Query languages
  Result set languages
  Typing
  Simple &amp; complex properties
  Effects on the HTTP + WebDAV protocol
   Requirements
   terms:
  search criteria
  result set
  result record
  search scope
    criteria:
  boolean expressions: and, or, not
  relative comparators , !=, =
  searches on content
  variants
  near operator
    results
  result record definition
  standardization results format
  paged search results
    search qualifiers
  scope: set of resources
  depth: recursion
  references: delegate the search
    query language
  simple query syntax
  extensible syntax
  query syntax discovery
    misc
  access control
  internationalization
     Attendees noted that there was overlap between the issues being
considered by LESSOR and DASL, as well as between the searching in
IMAP, LDAP, and ACAP and the searching proposed for
DASL. Specifically, it was suggested that search comparators be
leveraged from the Lessor group. Also, a note was made that reusing an
existing search syntax would be a good idea. A thread of discussion
investigated the interaction between DASL and LESSOR, asking whether
they should have separate or overlapping spheres of work. There was a
sentiment that DASL would be able to build upon the work of the LESSOR
group.

  Saveen gave information on how to become involved in the working
group.  The mailing list is www-webdav-dasl@w3.org (send a message
with subject "subscribe" to www-webdav-dasl-request@w3.org), and the
web page for the working group is
 
http://www.ics.uci.edu/pub/ietf/dasl/ .

  Towards the end of the Monday session a participant asked to see the
proposed charter of the DASL working group.  Unfortunately, though a
proposed charter had been written, no slides were available with the
proposed charter.  During the Tuesday session, Saveen briefly
presented the charter.  The charter is also available via the DASL web
page.

  At the end of the mini-BOF, a straw poll of the attendees found
substantial, but not unanimous, support for having a DASL working
group in the IETF.

  WEBDAV WORKING GROUP MEETING 

 After the DASL mini-BOF, the WEBDAV session began with a status report
on the current documents being developed by the working group. This
discussion was led by Jim Whitehead, and the slides he presented can
be found at
 
http://www.ics.uci.edu/pub/ietf/webdav/washington/jim/ .

  DOCUMENT STATUS REVIEW 

  Requirements:  Approved as Informational RFC, RFC number is still
pending.  Many thanks to Judith Slein for her hard work on this
document.

   Distributed Authoring (DA) Protocol Specification:  A schedule for
completion of this document was presented.  The chair announced that
there will be a working group last call on this document in January.

   ACL Requirements Draft, ACL Protocol Draft:  WebDAV ACL
issues are new, and not well understood.  Active participation from
the working group is strongly encouraged. Initial drafts of both
documents are now available.  Howard Palmer is the editor of the ACL
Requirements, and Paul Leach and Yaron Goland are the editors of the
ACL Protocol document.

   Versioning Protocol Draft:  Deferred to a later time
(proposed schedule outlined).  No objections voiced, but clarification
asked for time frame.  Several voiced concern that versioning be done
in a timely manner.

   Tree (recursive operations) Document:  This draft has been
merged into the DA protocol specification. No objections raised.

   Scenarios Document:  There was a call for volunteers to
become editor of this document, and bring it to completion. Walter
Houser volunteered.

  ORDERED COLLECTIONS 

 A discussion of open issues in the distributed authoring protocol
specification took place during the remainder of the Monday session.
Jim began by presenting slides summarizing the discussion on the
mailing list. Functionality for ordered collections was discussed,
with debate centering on what kind of ordered collection support
should be provided, and whether the support should be mandatory given
the processing burden on servers.

  Why have support for ordered collections?

  Larry Masinter: It's not that ordered collections makes products
easier to build; it's that ordering is inherent, anytime there's
export, for example, there needs to be a generic way to traverse
it. Either of two protocols could work. BUT, if there's an order
property, PROPFIND should return them in that order.

  Yaron Goland: Ordering can be useful in some scenarios, sure. The key
is, "should this feature be made mandatory?" As an implementor, most
servers don't want to be saddled with this feature.

  LM: BUT, when you do a PROPFIND, it has to come back in SOME order --
can't you expect to do a PROPFIND twice and get the same ordered
response?

  Paul Leach: I think you're making a *third* proposal: that there be
some consistent ordering (e.g. alphabetical).

  LM: are there any implementations where order will NOT be consistent?
(YG: if it relates to disk defragmentation ordering...)

  Someone: Shouldn't order be part of a query language, i.e. deferred to
DASL?

  PL: does sound reasonable.

  YG: In a base WebDAV implementation, the client does sorting, storage
into the order property; a DASL-enhanced one would do the sort on the
server.

  LM: There is some natural order; the natural way an implementation
sends things back in a predictable way. BUT, if the ordering is not in
the spec, clients can't rely on it; clients that don't know the
server's BEST consistent ordering either have to spend time resorting
it, or have the server sort oddly.

  Alex Hopmann: there are two cases: (1) clients care about ordering or
(2) client wants results returned in ordered fashion.  We need to
handle both cases and not preclude being able to get back in natural
(fast) order.

  A thread of discussion centered on whether the client should maintain
the ordering (e.g., with an ordering property which it maintains), or
whether the server should maintain the ordering.

  Someone: It is easy to devise a scenario where the client or the
server needs the resources in a specific order.  These are both valid
cases, so the protocol needs to provide a way to support both.

  LM: The performance argument for ordered collections is that most
underlying storage will maintain an order.  If we don't provide a
consistent natural order, then we will reduce performance because we
will force clients to always do a search on a key.  We don't enable a
solution that works without requiring a search.

  AH: If we have a consistent underlying order, what constraints based
on adds/deletes do you make?

  LM: There should be a property whose value is used to persist the order.

  PL: So if I have 100,000 item property and delete an entry, do I have
to reorder all the items?

  LM: It doesn't matter, just remove that entry and you have a new order.

  PL: This is very expensive, it will cost a lot to maintain this
property properly.  It's more complex than this.

  Rob: We need 3 things, no order, client can request order, server can
provide order.

  Someone: I agree that collections should have a natural order.  Does
not matter on order (alpha, etc).

  PL: Slight correction, the natural ordering of a collection for any
given replica of a collection (e.g., a collection in a replicated
store) will vary from replica to replica.

  No resolution was reached, discussion will continue on the list.
There was much sentiment in favor of creating a separate document to
address ordering, with some dissenters feeling the issue can be
brought to a speedy close on the mailing list.

  There was a final correction (by Larry Masinter) to the presented
slides: The multipart/related MIME type is not ordered, however, the
multipart/mixed MIME type is ordered.  The multipart/alternative MIME
type can be considered to be ordered by quality.

  SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS 

 Security considerations were discussed next, beginning with a slide
presentation reviewing open security issues.  Keith Moore noted that
WebDAV should review the security considerations in the HTTP
specification to ensure that no assumptions are broken when performing
document authoring.

  A participant raised the question: why won't the area directors go
with Digest Authentication?

  Keith Moore: (Thinking out loud) Hmmm.  Digest Authentication might be
acceptable since scaling isn't such an issue for authoring.  I'm a
little uneasy with the way passwords are handled on the server.  Are
all servers busted if a password is compromised on just one? (Paul
responds 'No' to this.  Keith continues.)  Gee, why not go with Digest
Authentication?  Why don't you guys run this past Jeff Schiller.  If
he buys it, so will I.

  The group reached agreement that a) the security considerations from
HTTP/1.1 need to be reviewed to ensure they are unchanged for the
domain of distributed authoring, b) WEBDAV will mandate use of digest
authentication, c) for cases where greater security that an unencoded
session is needed, use of TLS will be recommended.

  INDEX and RECURSIVE PROPFIND 

 Finally, the working group agreed with the decisions of the Design
Team that the INDEX method be removed in conjunction with adding
recursive capability to PROPFIND, and the PATCH method be moved to the
versioning specification.

  ACCESS CONTROL 

 Access Control was the topic of the Tuesday WEBDAV session.  Howard
Palmer led discussion on WEBDAV access control by presenting a series
of slides highlighting design issues. These slides can be accessed at
 
http://www.ics.uci.edu/pub/ietf/webdav/washington/acl/ .

  One thread discussed the problem of underlying repositories having
access control schemes which vary (e.g., by operating system), the
difficulty of mapping different schemes into each other, and the
challenge this poses for WEBDAV access control.  Since potentially
many protocols can access the same resources (e.g., FTP and HTTP
access to the same resource), perhaps access control is best addressed
by a separate working group which considers cross-protocol access
control. However, Nick Shelness pointed out that for other working
groups which have addressed access control, the largest problems were
how ACLs are granted or denied in a single overall model.  Mark Day
discouraged spinning off a separate group to address access control,
opining that a WebDAV protocol without access control is not
sufficient for authoring. There was no disagreement with this
sentiment.

  Nick Shelness: There are three options here: 1) don't address access
control at all, 2) since authoring implies identity and AC
specification, add that to the protocol, and 3) (the tar pit) is any
form of prescriptive access control.

  Scott Lawrence: You can't get away from: 1) the real access control is
always going to trump DAV, 2) it will differ on different servers (by
OS, etc), 3) reflection (acting on the AC protocol) is important.

  A link-based proposal was discussed, where each resource has a link to
an access control resource which contains an access control
specification, which can vary across underlying storage
repositories. This has the advantage that different underlying access
control mechanisms can be easily accommodated.  However, Yaron Goland
raised concerns about this due to user interface complexity.  For each
access control scheme supported, there may need to be a separate user
interface, and users find access control to be confusing as-is.

  Finally, Paul Leach recounted an experience he had trying to map an
access control list mechanism into the Unix access control mechanism
supported by NFS.  He found it to be very tricky mapping from one to
the other, using an "impedance mismatch" analogy.

  No consensus was reached (none was expected). Discussion on access
control will continue on the mailing list.

 </body> 