 Euler's Formula<body>
     
  Euler's Formula,
Proof 9: Spherical Angles
 

The proof by sums of angles works more cleanly in terms of spherical triangulations,
largely because in this formulation there is no distinguished "outside face"
to cause complications in the proof.
 
We need the following basic fact from spherical trigonometry:
if we normalize the surface area of a sphere to 4 pi,
and look at any triangle defined by great circle arcs on the sphere,
the sum of the three interior angles is pi+a where a (the  excess 
of the triangle, is equal to the surface area of the triangle.
(E.g. see  Wells , p. 238).

  
To translate our question on polyhedra to one of spherical geometry,
first triangulate the polyhedron; each new edge increases E and F by one each,
so V-E+F is left unchanged.  Now perform a similar
light-shining experiment to the one described on the  index page :
place a light source at an interior point of the polyhedron,
and place a spherical screen outside the polyhedron
having the light source as its centerpoint.
The shadows cast on the screen by the polyhedron edges will form
a spherical triangulation.  Since every edge is on two triangles
and every triangle has three edges, 2E=3F.
 
We now add up the angles of all the triangles; by the spherical trigonometry described above, the sum is (4+F) pi.  Adding the same angles another way, in terms of the vertices, gives a total of 2 V pi.  Since these two sums measure the same set of angles,
F=2V-4 and combining this with the other equation 2E=3F yields the result.
  

 Sommerville  attributes this proof to
 Legendre .
Because of its connections with
 geometric
topology , this is the proof used by
 Weeks ,
who also gives an elegant proof of the spherical angle-area relationship
based on inclusion-exclusion of great-circular double wedges.
 
The relation A*k = 2 pi (V-E+F)
on a surface of constant curvature k such as the sphere
is a form of the Gauss-Bonnet formula from differential geometry.
     
 Proofs of Euler's Formula . 
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file.
Last update: .  </body> 