  Michael J. Pazzani: Research<body>
   Michael J. Pazzani: Research  
     Publications  
      NSF Project:  Cognitive Knowledge Discovery in Databases  
    Research Overview:  

The common theme behind my research is the investigation and analysis
of learning methods that make use of prior knowledge to guide the
learning process.  Typically, these learning methods combine empirical
(i.e., correlational or data-driven) and explanation-based (i.e.,
analytical or knowledge-intensive) learning techniques.  The goal is
to create learning systems that accept as input background knowledge,
although incomplete and incorrect, along with training examples, and
learn to make classifications that are more accurate than that made by
either the background knowledge alone, or by the results of applying
an induction algorithm on the training data.
 
My early work on OCCAM [1] describes a learning system that has the
capability of acquiring knowledge empirically and later using this
knowledge to facilitate knowledge-intensive learning.  This research
was inspired by psychological findings on the types of information
that people use during learning and how this information affects the
rate of learning.  Part of this research also focused on the
acquisition of causal relationships [2].  In this paper, it is argued
that in addition to specific knowledge of actions and effect, the
process of learning causal relationships is also facilitated by
general knowledge of causality.  That is, causal relationships that
conform to one of a number of common patterns of causal relationships
are easier for human subjects to learn.  This paper also provides
experimental evidence collected from human subjects.  An experiment
shows that human subjects learning a causal relationship that conforms
to one particular causal pattern require fewer trials than subjects
learning a causal relationship that violates this pattern.  In more
recent research in this framework [3], I have addressed issues of
learning when the background knowledge is overly general.  In
addition, in [4] I have addressed the issue of the acquisition of the
common patterns of causal relationships used by OCCAM and show that
they can be formed by looking for commonalities among rules found by
an empirical learner.
  
[1] Pazzani, M. (1990). Creating a memory of causal relationships-
An integration of empirical and explanation-based learning methods.
Hillsdale, NJ- Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
  
[2]  Pazzani, M. (1991).  A computational theory of learning causal
relationships.  Cognitive Science, 15, 401-424.
  
[3] Pazzani, M. (1989).  Detecting and correcting errors of
omission after explanation-based learning.  Proceedings of the
Eleventh International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence
(pp. 713-718). Detroit, MI- Morgan Kaufmann.
  
[4]  Pazzani, M. (1992).  Learning causal patterns: Making a
 transition from data-driven to theory-driven learning.    Machine
Learning, 11, 173-194.  Abstract 
  
Information about getting a copy of  Occam . 
My more recent research has focused on more thoroughly investigating
issues raised during the development of OCCAM.  In particular, I have
explored the use of prior knowledge in learning from mathematical,
psychological, computational and applied points of view.

 

   Mathematical modeling of learning algorithms  
 
We have developed an approach to average case analysis of
learning algorithms [5,6].  The average case model is based upon
determining, for a given distribution of examples, the probability
that an algorithm will revise its hypothesis and the effect that
revising the hypothesis will have on the accuracy of the hypothesis.
Models were created for  three different algorithms learning
from a specific distribution (a product distribution).  It was
shown that a particular algorithm combining empirical and
explanation-based learning [7] is more accurate than either its
empirical or explanation-based component alone.  An average
case model was needed because the "standard" mathematical
models of learning algorithms (i.e., Probably Approximately
Correct models) are worst-case models and the worst-case
behavior of all three algorithms is identical.  This paper also
evaluates the assumptions from which the average-case model
was derived by experimentally demonstrating that it  accounts
for a large percentage of the variation in observed accuracy on a
naturally occurring data set and on several artificial data sets
deliberately constructed to violate assumptions of the model.
  
[5] Pazzani, M., &amp; Sarrett, W. (1989). Average case analysis
of conjunctive learning algorithms. Proceedings of the
Seventh International Conference on Machine Learning
 (pp. 339-347).  Austin, TX- Morgan Kaufmann.
  
[6] Pazzani, M., &amp; Sarrett, W.  (1992). 
 A framework for average
 case analysis of conjunctive learning algorithms.   Machine Learning, 9, 342-372.  Abstract 
  
[7] Sarrett, W., &amp; Pazzani, M. (1989).  One-sided algorithms
for integrating empirical and explanation-based learning.
 Proceedings of the Sixth International Workshop on
Machine Learning  (pp. 26-28).  Ithaca, NY- Morgan
Kaufmann.
  

  Investigation of human learning 
 
My interest in machine learning algorithms that combine correlational
and analytical methods arises from the fact that much of human
learning of predictive relationships can be characterized as using a
combination of these methods.  Part of my research has been the
conducting of psychological experiments to assess the impact of
various types of prior knowledge on human learning rates.  The
psychological research is performed to test hypotheses that occur
during the development of computational models of learning. Typically,
the dependent variable measured is the learning rate as determined by
the number of trials. We have described [7] a learning problem in
which the effect of consistency with prior knowledge dominates the
effect of concept complexity in human learners. Further work [8]
expands upon this finding.  In particular, in addition to the learning
rate, this paper shows that prior knowledge influences the attributes
that subjects attend to and the types of hypotheses formed. In
addition, this publication shows that the type of knowledge used by
human subjects cannot easily be encoded into the domain theory used by
explanation-based learning.  A different encoding of knowledge, an
influence theory, is proposed.  In such a theory, the influence of
several factors is known, but a domain theory does not specify a
systematic means of combining the factors. In [9] we extend this work
and evaluate a competing model based upon weighting of features
rather than consistency with prior knowledge.  It is shown that
feature weighting models cannot account for certain complex concepts
in which two individual features individually exert a positive
influence on an outcome but collectively exert a negative influence.
  
[8] Pazzani, M., &amp; Schulenburg, D. (1989). The influence of
prior theories on the ease of concept acquisition.
Proceedings of the Eleventh Annual Conference of the Cognitive
Science Society (pp. 812-819).  Ann Arbor, MI- Lawrence Erlbaum.
  
[9] Pazzani, M. (1991). 
 The influence of prior knowledge on concept acquisition: Experimental and computational results.   Journal of Experimental Psychology- Learning,
Memory &amp; Cognition, 17, 3,  416-432.
 Abstract 

  
[10] Pazzani, M., &amp; Silverstein, G. (1990). Feature selection and
hypothesis selection models of induction. Proceedings of the Twelfth
Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society (pp.  221-228).
Cambridge, MA- Lawrence Erlbaum.

   A more recent paper  Learning Sets of
Related Concepts: A Shared Task Model  by Tim Hume and Michael J.
Pazzani from the 1995 Cognitive Science Conference is available in
HTML format.

  

     The development of learning algorithms    I have also
been involved with the creation of practical learning algorithms.
Recently [11,12] several of my graduate students (Cliff Brunk, Kamal
Ali and Glenn Silverstein) and I have created a significant extension
to Ross Quinlan's FOIL program.  FOIL is an empirical learning program
that uses an information-based evaluation function to learn Horn
Clause concepts.  I have constructed a compatible explanation-based
learning program that uses the same information-based metric to guide
the proof process.  The resulting combined system (FOCL) has been
shown to take advantage of incomplete and incorrect domain theories.
In addition, the effect of other kinds of background knowledge, such
as typing and commutative relationships, was considered both
empirically and analytically. FOCL is novel in that the integration
between empirical and explanation-based learning is tighter than that
of previous systems.  Both the explanation-based and empirical
learning components serve the same purpose (adding literals to a
clause under construction) and use the same evaluation function.
Furthermore, the domain theory used by the explanation-based program
defines relations that can be used by the empirical program.  We have
also investigated learning in this framework when the training data is
incorrectly classified [13].     [11] Pazzani, M., &amp; Kibler, D.
(1992).  The role of prior knowledge in inductive learning. Machine
Learning, 9, 54-97.  
   [12] Pazzani, M., Brunk, C., &amp; Silverstein,
G. (1991).  A knowledge-intensive approach to learning relational
concepts.  Proceedings of the Eighth International Workshop on Machine
Learning (pp. 432-436). Evanston, IL- Morgan Kaufmann.  
   [13]
Brunk, C., &amp; Pazzani, M. (1991).   An investigation of noise-tolerant relational
concept learning algorithms.  Proceedings of the Eighth
International Workshop on Machine Learning (pp. 389-391). Evanston,
IL- Morgan Kaufmann.  Abstract    


Information about getting a copy of  FOCL .

  

  Applications of learning methods  
A portion of my research has focused on adapting existing
learning methods to problems in areas such as engineering and
political science.   For example, [14] describes an application of
explanation-based learning to a problem  of identifying
conditions that are indicative of a component failure in the
attitude control system of the DSCS-III satellite.  This paper
describes a method for learning diagnosis heuristics (i.e., rules
that encode associations between data values in a telemetry
stream) from information contained in a qualitative model of the
satellite. The application of a learning method to data on foreign
trade negotiations is discussed in [15].
 
[14] Pazzani, M. (1989). Learning fault diagnosis heuristics from
device descriptions. In Y. Kodratoff &amp; R. Michalski (Eds.), Machine
Learning- An artificial intelligence approach (Volume III). Los Altos,
CA- Morgan Kaufmann.
  
[15] Cain, T., Pazzani, M., &amp; Silverstein, G. (1991). Using domain
knowledge to influence similarity judgments.  Case-Based Reasoning
Workshop. Washington, DC- Morgan Kaufmann.

  Research Talks    Syskill &amp; Webert: Identifying interesting web sites  AAAI96
    Constructive Induction of Cartesian Product Attributes  ISIS96
   The Role of Existing Knowledge in Generalization   CogSci94
    Learning Sets of Related Concepts: A Shared Task Model   CogSci95
   Learning as hill-climbing search   
    Reducing Misclassification Costs  MLC94
       

  
 Michael J. Pazzani   Department of Information and Computer Science,   University of California, Irvine  
Irvine, CA 92697-3425   pazzani@ics.uci.edu  
 
</body> 