 featured Archives - Software Engineering and Analysis Lab (SEAL) 
 
	
	 
			  Software Engineering and Analysis Lab (SEAL)  

			 
				 Search 
			 

			
				 Skip to content 
				    About SEAL  
  Members  
  Publications  
  Research Projects  
  Tools  
  Blog  
  			 

		 
			 
				
				 
					 Search for: 
					 
							 
		 
	 

	 

			
			 Tag Archives: featured 

							 
	  

	
	 
			  News  
		 
		  Reducing Combinatorics in GUI Testing of Android Applications — ICSE 2016  
		 
			 
				 Image 
			 

			  December 20, 2015      Joshua Garcia   
			
					 
	 
		 The rising popularity of Android and the GUI-driven nature of its apps have motivated the need for applicable automated GUI testing techniques. Although exhaustive testing of all possible combinations is the ideal upper bound in combinatorial testing, it is often infeasible, due to the combinatorial explosion of test cases. This paper presents TrimDroid, a framework for GUI testing of Android apps that uses a novel strategy to generate tests in a combinatorial, yet scalable, fashion. It is backed with automated program analysis and formally rigorous test generation engines. TrimDroid relies on program analysis to extract formal specifications. These specifications express the app’s behavior (i.e., control flow between the various app screens) as well as the GUI elements and their dependencies. The dependencies among the GUI elements comprising the app are used to reduce the number of combinations with the help of a solver. Our experiments have corroborated TrimDroid’s ability to achieve a comparable coverage as that possible under exhaustive GUI testing using significantly fewer test cases. 
 Learn more about TrimDroid  here . 
	 

	  featured   
	  

	
	 
			  News  
		 
		  COVERT: Compositional Analysis of Android Inter-App Permission Leakage — TSE 2015  
		 
			 
				 Image 
			 

			  June 21, 2015      Sam   
			
					 
	 
		 Android is the most popular platform for mobile devices. It facilitates sharing of data and services among applications using a rich inter-app communication system. While access to resources can be controlled by the Android permission system, enforcing permissions is not sufficient to prevent security violations, as permissions may be mismanaged, intentionally or unintentionally. Android’s enforcement of the permissions is at the level of individual apps, allowing multiple malicious apps to collude and combine their permissions or to trick vulnerable apps to perform actions on their behalf that are beyond their individual privileges. In this paper, we present COVERT, a tool for compositional analysis of Android inter-app vulnerabilities. COVERT’s analysis is modular to enable incremental analysis of applications as they are installed, updated, and removed. It statically analyzes the reverse engineered source code of each individual app, and extracts relevant security specifications in a format suitable for formal verification. Given a collection of specifications extracted in this way, a formal analysis engine (e.g., model checker) is then used to verify whether it is safe for a combination of applications—holding certain permissions and potentially interacting with each other—to be installed together. Our experience with using COVERT %running Covert on over 200 real-world apps, to examine over 500 real-world apps %against one of the most signification Android inter-app vulnerabilities, i.e. privilege escalation, corroborates its ability to find inter-app vulnerabilities in bundles of some of the most popular apps on the market. 
	 

	  featured   
	  

	
	 
			  News  
		 
		  A Study on the Role of Software Architecture in the Evolution and Quality of Software — MSR 2015  
		 
			 
				 Image 
			 

			  May 20, 2015      Sam   
			
					 
	 
		 Conventional wisdom suggests that a software system’s architecture has a significant impact on its evolution. Prior research has studied the evolution of software using the information of how its files have changed together in their revision history. No prior study, however, has investigated the impact of architecture on the evolution of software from its change history. This is mainly because most open-source software systems do not document their architectures. We have overcome this challenge using several architecture recovery techniques. We used the recovered models to examine if co-changes spanning multiple architecture modules are more likely to introduce bugs than co-changes that are within modules. The results show that the co-changes that cross architectural module boundaries are more correlated with defects than co-changes within modules, implying that, to improve accuracy, bug predictors should also take the software architecture of the system into consideration. 
 Read more about this topic in our  recent publication . 
	 

	  featured   
	  

	
	 
			  News  
		 
		  EvoDroid: Segmented Evolutionary Testing of Android Apps — FSE 2014  
		 
			 
				 Image 
			 

			  November 18, 2014      Sam   
			
					 
	 
		 Proliferation of Android devices and apps has created a demand for applicable automated software testing techniques. Prior research has primarily focused on either unit or GUI testing of Android apps, but not their end-to-end system testing in a systematic manner. We present EvoDroid, an evolutionary approach for system testing of Android apps. EvoDroid overcomes a key shortcoming of using evolutionary techniques for system testing, i.e., the inability to pass on genetic makeup of good individuals in the search. To that end, EvoDroid combines two novel techniques: (1) an Android-specific program analysis technique that identifies the segments of the code amenable to be searched independently, and (2) an evolutionary algorithm that given information of such segments performs a step-wise search for test cases reaching deep into the code. Our experiments have corroborated EvoDroid’s ability to achieve significantly higher code coverage than existing Android testing tools. 
 Read more about this topic in our  recent publication . 
	 

	  featured   
	 
			 Recent News 		  
				 HaCkEd By RxR HaCkEr 
							 June 13, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Nariman Mirzaei defended his PhD thesis 
							 June 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Reyhaneh Jabbarvand advanced to candidacy 
							 May 27, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Practical, Formal Synthesis and Automatic Enforcement of Security Policies for Android — DSN 2016 
							 May 6, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Eric Yuan defended his PhD thesis 
							 May 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Ehsan Kouroshfar defended his PhD thesis 
							 May 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Energy-Aware Test-Suite Minimization for Android Apps — ISSTA 2016 
							 April 18, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Reducing Combinatorics in GUI Testing of Android Applications — ICSE 2016 
							 December 20, 2015 
						 
					 
				 Move to UC Irvine 
							 July 1, 2015 
						 
					 
				 Detection of Design Flaws in the Android Permission Protocol through Bounded Verification — FM 2015 
							 June 24, 2015 
						 
				  
 
		 University of California, Irvine 
	
		 
		   
		
				 
					 Search for: 
					 
				 
	 

		 

		 
								 Proudly powered by WordPress 
			 
		 

	</body> 