  "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN\"&gt;

 
UCI Machine Learning Repository: Census-Income (KDD) Data Set   
		                Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems   
	 
	 
		 
		 About  
		 Citation Policy  
		 Donate a Data Set  
		 Contact 
		 

		  
		   Repository  
		  Web  
		          
		   
		 
		


		    View 
ALL Data Sets    
		  
      

      
	 
	  Census-Income (KDD) Data Set  
	    Download  :   Data Folder  ,   Data Set Description    

	  Abstract : This data set contains weighted census data extracted from the 1994 and 1995 current population surveys conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau. 
      
        
          Data Set Characteristics:     
		  Multivariate  
		   Number of Instances:   
		  299285  
		   Area:   
		  Social  
	     Attribute Characteristics:   
		  Categorical, Integer  
		   Number of Attributes:   
		  40  
		   Date Donated   
		  2000-03-07  
	     Associated Tasks:   
		  Classification  
		   Missing Values?   
		  Yes  
		   Number of Web Hits:   
		  91123  
	     Source:  
 Original Owner:  U.S. Census Bureau  http://www.census.gov/  United States Department of Commerce  Donor:  Terran Lane and Ronny Kohavi Data Mining and Visualization Silicon Graphics.  terran  '@'  ecn.purdue.edu ,  ronnyk  '@'  sgi.com    

   Data Set Information:  
 This data set contains weighted census data extracted from the 1994 and 1995 Current Population Surveys conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau. The data contains 41 demographic and employment related variables.   The instance weight indicates the number of people in the population that each record represents due to stratified sampling. To do real analysis and derive conclusions, this field must be used. This attribute should *not* be used in the classifiers.   One instance per line with comma delimited fields. There are 199523 instances in the data file and 99762 in the test file.   The data was split into train/test in approximately 2/3, 1/3 proportions using MineSet's MIndUtil mineset-to-mlc.   

   Attribute Information:  
 More information detailing the meaning of the attributes can be found in the Census Bureau's documentation To make use of the data descriptions at this site, the following mappings to the Census Bureau's internal database column names will be needed:   age						AAGE class of worker					ACLSWKR industry code					ADTIND occupation code					ADTOCC adjusted gross income				AGI education					AHGA wage per hour					AHRSPAY enrolled in edu inst last wk			AHSCOL marital status					AMARITL major industry code				AMJIND major occupation code				AMJOCC mace						ARACE hispanic Origin					AREORGN sex						ASEX member of a labor union				AUNMEM reason for unemployment				AUNTYPE full or part time employment stat		AWKSTAT capital gains					CAPGAIN capital losses					CAPLOSS divdends from stocks				DIVVAL federal income tax liability			FEDTAX tax filer status				FILESTAT region of previous residence			GRINREG state of previous residence			GRINST detailed household and family stat		HHDFMX detailed household summary in household		HHDREL instance weight					MARSUPWT migration code-change in msa			MIGMTR1 migration code-change in reg			MIGMTR3 migration code-move within reg			MIGMTR4 live in this house 1 year ago			MIGSAME migration prev res in sunbelt			MIGSUN num persons worked for employer			NOEMP family members under 18				PARENT total person earnings				PEARNVAL country of birth father				PEFNTVTY country of birth mother				PEMNTVTY country of birth self				PENATVTY citizenship					PRCITSHP total person income				PTOTVAL own business or self employed			SEOTR taxable income amount				TAXINC fill inc questionnaire for veteran's admin	VETQVA veterans benefits				VETYN weeks worked in year				WKSWORK  Note that Incomes have been binned at the $50K level to present a binary classification problem, much like the original UCI/ADULT database. The goal field of this data, however, was drawn from the "total person income" field rather than the "adjusted gross income" and may, therefore, behave differently than the orginal ADULT goal field.   

   Relevant Papers:  
 N/A 

   Papers That Cite This Data Set 1 :  
  Eibe Frank and Geoffrey Holmes and Richard Kirkby and Mark A. Hall.  Racing Committees for Large Datasets . Discovery Science. 2002.  [ View Context ].  Stephen D. Bay.  Multivariate Discretization for Set Mining . Knowl. Inf. Syst, 3. 2001.  [ View Context ].  Nikunj C. Oza and Stuart J. Russell.  Experimental comparisons of online and batch versions of bagging and boosting . KDD. 2001.  [ View Context ].  Masahiro Terabe and Takashi Washio and Hiroshi Motoda.  The Effect of Subsampling Rate on S 3 Bagging Performance . Mitsubishi Research Institute.  [ View Context ].   

   Citation Request:  
 Please refer to the Machine Learning 
Repository's  citation policy  

      [1] Papers were automatically harvested and associated with this data set, in collaboration 
with   Rexa.info    

    Supported By:  
           
           In Collaboration With:  
           
   
 
 About   || 
 Citation Policy   || 
 Donation Policy   || 
 Contact   || 
 CML 
 
 





 