 SATware Info Page<body>

     
          
	      SATware --
	SATware, a Stream Acquisition and Transformation middleware for sentient systems  
	   
	   
	        
	      
	     
	        About SATware  
	     
             
               English (USA)
              
    
             
	     
		  SATware : a Stream Acquisition and Transformation middleware for  sentient systems . 
	    To see the collection of prior postings to the list,
	      visit the  SATware
		  Archives .
	      ( The current archive is only available to the list
                members. )
	   
	 
         
	    Using SATware  
	 
         
	  To post a message to all the list members, send email to
	   satware@ics.uci.edu .

	   You can subscribe to the list, or change your existing
	    subscription, in the sections below.
	  
         
	    Subscribing to SATware  
	 
         
	   
	    Subscribe to SATware by filling out the following
	      form.
	  This is a closed list, which means your subscription
            will be held for approval.  You will be notified of the list
            moderator's decision by email. This is also a private list, which means that the
            list of members is not available to non-members.
	       Your email address: 
		    
	      Your name (optional): 
          
	       You may enter a
	    privacy password below. This provides only mild security,
	    but should prevent others from messing with your
	    subscription.   Do not use a valuable password  as
	    it will occasionally be emailed back to you in cleartext.

             If you choose not to enter a password, one will be
            automatically generated for you, and it will be sent to
            you once you've confirmed your subscription.  You can
            always request a mail-back of your password when you edit
            your personal options.
	    
	   
         Pick a password: 
	  
	      Reenter password to confirm: 
	  
	       Which language do you prefer to display your messages?  
          English (USA) 
               Would you like to receive list mail batched in a daily
	  digest?
	   
	  No
	      Yes
	 
         
	    
         
       
	 
          SATware Subscribers   
       
       
	
	( The subscribers list is only available to the list
                members. )  Enter your address and password to visit  the subscribers list:      Address: Password:    
	    
	   
	 
	To unsubscribe from SATware, get a password reminder,
        or change your subscription options enter your subscription
        email address:
              If you leave the field blank, you will be prompted for
        your email address
		
       
         SATware  list run by  bhore at ics.uci.edu   SATware administrative interface  (requires authorization)  Overview of all ics.uci.edu mailing lists  
      version 2.1.12 
       
       
     
</body> 