 CS 154 Lab 5: Data Path 

 

  Lab5    

  Complete Datapath Design    

   Due dates are in the Labs table     

       

       

  Please read  ALL 
instructions carefully.  Only    properly submitted  
assignments will be graded. Make sure to create a zipfile, named by your
student id, and submit required files in it.     

         

   Specification     

  

       

  This lab implement
the full datapath. Complete the design of the data path by adding all the logic
necessary to support LD, ST, BNE, BEQ, and JMP instructions, as well as support
for executing the I-format ALU instructions. The instructions in the following
table should be supported by your design. Reuse as much of the Lab 4 datapath
as you can, adding a memory, IR, PC, MDR, multiplexers, sign extenders, etc.
Submit a full block diagram of the data path as the specification.     

       

     

     

       

         



   Design     



  Design the complete
datapath and a testbench to test the functionality of the datapath entity.    

       

  The    template
VHDL files    for
the module (lab5.vhd), global declaration package (Glob_dcls.vhd) and memory
module (  mem.vhd  ) have been provided to you. The
interface (that is, ports) is already defined. You need to design the
architecture for both. Do not make any change to the interface.   

     

  Please see the
updated  glob_dcls  . vhd here. Line 21 has been modified. The
range should be "0 to 31" instead of "31 downto 0".  

     

   Verification     



  You need to
test the following:    

   Instruction fetch    
   Load (load address
     computation + actual load from memory)     
   Store (store
     address computation + actual store to memory)    
   Branch Equal/Not
     Equal.    
        

  Generate the
control signals at the right time in your testbench for each test case. Use a
clock cycle of 40 ns.     

       

       

  Submission:    

  Please submit
the specification :          

  A
block diagram of the complete datapath    

       

  Please submit
your design and verification:    

  VHDL design and test bench    

  Screenshots
of Waveform     

       

  Both the
implementation and test code will be graded. You will also be graded on coding
style and code comments.    

       

 

</body> 