 PDF Fonts<body>

   Use Type-1 Fonts in PDF Papers    Chen
Li  
Department of Computer Science, UC Irvine 
May 11, 2005 
 

 
Recently many publishers have strict requirements about the fonts used
in camera-ready paper submissions.  Specifically, they require authors
to substitute Adobe Postscript Type 1 fonts for any bitmap fonts
(e.g., Postscript Type 3 bitmapped fonts, PCL fonts, MacOS bitmap
fonts, Windows vector (outline) fonts). Being the Proceedings Chair of
 ACM PODS 2005 , I
set up the  instructions  for
camera-ready submissions.  In the process of editing the proceedings,
 I saw many common problems for authors to meet such a requirement.
I wrote this page so that it may benefit other authors with similar
problems.  As always, comments are very welcome.  

     Font Requirements 
     Why Such Requirements? 
     How do you tell what fonts your pdf file is using? 
     LaTeX  dvips  command to produce PDF files using Type 1 fonts only 
     Common Problems 
       Use the right  dvips  option 
         Missing fonts 
         Type 3 fonts from figures (xfig) 
         Related Links 
     
 Font Requirements 

The following are some general font requirements by ACM.
 Authors should substitute Adobe Postscript Type 1 fonts for any
bitmap fonts (e.g., Postscript Type 3 bitmapped fonts, PCL fonts,
MacOS bitmap fonts, Windows vector (outline) fonts). Bitmapped fonts
display poorly on screen in PDF files and sometimes cause printing
problems.  Whenever possible, please substitute Type 1 Postscript
fonts for Type 3 fonts in LaTEX files, then generate PS or PDF.  LaTEX
FILES: PDFs generated from LaTEX files generally do not display well
on screen because the fonts that are generated from LaTEX for the PDFs
are bitmap images. 




   
 Why Such Requirements? 

The simple reason for having these requirements is to make sure your
PDF papers can be displayed nicely when they are browsed by people.
Type 1 fonts are displayed much  better than Type 3 fonts, even
though the paper in Type 1 fonts may print the same as the one in Type
3 fonts.  Click  this page  to see
good examples to illustrate the quality difference of different
fonts.
I copied their examples here. Here are examples from pdf files viewed
in Acrobat Reader at 400% zoom. 

      Default LaTeX/dvips    behavior 

      Package times.sty  (part of PSNFSS)   forces use of  Postscript fonts 
       Outline fonts from AMS    embedded in PDF file 
         
 How do you tell what fonts your pdf file is using? 

When you open your PDF file using  Adobe Acrobat Reader ,
go to "File --&gt; Document Properties --&gt; Fonts" to see the fonts used
in your PDF file.   Make sure to click "List All Fonts" to see all the
fonts.  You may also bring up this box by typing "Ctrl+Alt+F".  The
following is an example. 

    

   
 LaTeX  dvips  command to produce PDF files using Type 1 fonts only 

I used the following dvips command (in MiKTeX) to produce PDF files
using Type 1 fonts only: 

     dvips -t letter -Ppdf -G0 -j0 mypaper.dvi -o mypaper.ps  
 
Check  this
link  for more information about the options.

    
 Common Problems 

If your PDF file includes type 3 fonts, you may check the following to
get rid of such fonts.

  
 1. Use the right  dvips  option 

Make sure to use the right options in the  dvips 
command. Try the following:  
     dvips -t letter -Ppdf -G0 -j0 mypaper.dvi -o mypaper.ps   

  
  2. Missing fonts 

If your LaTeX environment doesn't have all the necessary fonts used by
your file, when you use  dvips , it will produce a file called:

    missfont.log   

Check if this file exists.  If it does, it means your environment
misses some fonts, and needs to install them.  Check  this
link  for more information.

  
  3. Type 3 fonts from figures (xfig) 

Often type-3 fonts are introduced from figures.  In particular, I
found that eps files produced by xfig can introduce type-3 fonts.  In
particular, according to  http://leon.bottou.com/nips/ , 
 
    * xfig "patterned" shapes are implemented with bitmap fonts.
      Use "solid" shapes instead.
 

As an example, the following two xfig files both draw the same circle.
The file "pattern.fig" uses a "patterned" shape to draw the circle,
and its corresponding "pattern.pdf" is using a type-3 font.  The file
"solid.fig" uses a "slide" shape to draw the circle, and its
corresponding "slide.pdf" is not introducing any type-3 font. 

A circle using a patterned shape (type-3 font introduced)
    pattern.fig 
    pattern.eps 
    pattern.pdf 
   A circle using a solid shape (type-3 font not introduced)
    solid.fig 
    solid.eps 
    solid.pdf 
  </body>    Related Links   Computer Modern and AMSFonts in Type 1 (PostScript) Form,  http://www.ams.org/tex/type1-fonts.html 

   Getting Good PDF from LaTeX,  http://web.gat.com/diag/pci/ltx2pdf.html 

   Type-3 fonts in xfig,  http://leon.bottou.com/nips ,
 Search for "xfig"
   