 undergraduate degree in informatics @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  Degrees  


     
 Undergraduate degree in Informatics 

 
 

 DEGREES AVAILABLE: Major and Minor</strong>     
   What is Informatics? </strong> 
  
				Informatics brings together software engineering, human-computer 
interaction, and the study of information technology in organizations 
into a single, focused degree program.				 
  Informatics addresses the design and construction of 
information technology systems that will be effective in real-world 
situations.  It includes not only building software but also examining 
the human, organizational, and social context where the system will be 
used.  
  Informatics is the interdisciplinary study of the design, 
implementation, use, and impact of information technology. 
  Informatics is a common term for computer science in 
European universities; the number of Informatics programs in American 
universities is growing. 
  Traditional computer science programs focus on analyzing and 
designing computers and computer systems, but the success of those 
systems depends not only on their intrinsic characteristics but also on 
the real-world situations where they will be used—the human users and 
their requirements, characteristics, and organizations. Informatics 
studies computer systems in their real-world context and how to design 
and build those systems so they work effectively in that context.  
 In Informatics we aim to: 
  Design and develop new uses for information technology. 
 Understand the effect information technology has on 
people. 
 Apply information technology in fields ranging from 
medicine to music, from ecology to aerospace, from finance to 
entertainment. 
   ›  Is 
Informatics for me?  
		        ›  What 
do I take?  
		        ›  What
 can I do with this degree?  
		        ›  What
 can I do with the Informatics minor?  
		        ›  Still
 not sure?    
	           
      
 Is Informatics for me?  
 Informatics is for you if you: 
  Enjoy solving problems using all the tools you have available. 
  Can work not only with technical details but also with 
“big-picture” issues 
  Have strong reading and writing skills and can think freely, 
creatively, and systematically. 
  Previous experience in computer programming is not required to 
start the Informatics major. Programming is just one aspect of 
Informatics and the major introduces all the necessary skills at a 
manageable pace. Students who do already have some programming 
experience will also find new concepts, even in the very first course.  
 The Informatics major offers a contemporary curriculum with an 
emphasis on group work (starting in the first course), studio-oriented 
design courses, and a year-long senior project. 
 The first year of the program provides students with a hands-on 
introduction to the broad field of Informatics, centering on the 
Informatics Core Course. This year-long course develops students’ basic 
understanding of software: how to design and construct programs and how 
the programs operate as part of information technology systems. 
 The second year builds up a portfolio of foundational concepts 
and techniques that establish the discipline of Informatics; these 
contribute to the “toolbox” students will use in subsequent years to 
solve large-scale information and software design problems.  As 
sophomores, students begin to take more advanced courses that support 
their specialization in either software engineering, human-computer 
interaction, or the study of organizations and information technology. 
These may involve courses in Management, Psychology, Computer Science, 
or Engineering. 
 In the third year, all students study the design process, 
project management, and the impacts of technology on the real world. 
Students continue to take electives in their specialized area of study. 
 The fourth year is built around a year-long capstone project in 
which groups of students address a significant project, typically from 
an outside client. 
 ↑  Back
 to top  
  
 What do I take?  
 All Informatics majors take a common core of 16 
courses. After their first year, Informatics majors choose an additional
 10 courses in one of three specializations: 
  Software Engineering 
 Human-Computer Interaction 
 Organizations and Information Technology 
 
For a full listing of courses required for the major, see the  General Catalogue .
 Students are encouraged to consult an academic advisor 
in the Bren School of ICS to determine the coursework designed to meet 
their educational goals.  
 Additional information about this degree can be found 
on the  Department of
 Informatics web site .  
 ↑  Back
 to top      
 What can I do with this degree?   
 A degree in Informatics provides excellent preparation for 
work at the forefront of the computing industry.               
               
 Our students work in many industrial settings, such
 as start-up companies, small software houses, consulting firms and 
multi-national corporations.               
               
 They are prepared for careers including these: 
  Software Engineer 
 Human-Computer Interface Designer 
 Information Architect 
 Game Designer 
 Usability Engineer 
 Mobile Computing Systems Designer 
 
Many students will go on to graduate school in computer 
engineering, computer science, information science, management or law.
 ↑ Back to top  
  
 What can I do with the Informatics Minor? 
 The minor provides a focused study of Informatics to 
supplement a student’s major program of study and prepares students for a
 profession, career, or academic pursuit in which information and 
software design is an integral part but is not the primary focus.  
 The minor allows students sufficient flexibility to 
pursue courses that complement their major field or address specific 
interests. The minor particularly centers on understanding the 
relationships among computers and people, and how these relationships 
must be addressed in information and software design.  
 Requirements for the Informatics minor can be found in the  General Catalogue  .</strong> 
 ↑  Back
 to top    
              
               
 Still not sure?  
 
Prospective and current UCI students interested in learning more about the Bren School’s degree options are encouraged to meet with the school’s 
counselors and student ambassadors. They will help you determine which of our majors and minors best support your academic strengths and 
interests. Call our Student Affairs Office at 949-824-5156 to make an appointment. 
  ↑ Back to top  


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 