 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  November 7,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         How vulnerable are the nation’s electronic voting machines?
</strong>
           By Katherine Li Smith</strong>    Ph.D. student Tyler Kaczmarek's past research reveals that the heterogeneous nature of the American voting system helps safeguard it from fraudulent attacks.
    
                    
Earlier this year,  CNN Money  wrote, “We’ve officially entered the era of the hackable election.” This was a consequence of the email scandal that marred the Democratic National Convention in July.
 
  
With widespread and conspiratorial talk of rigged elections, it isn’t surprising that many voters are weary about casting their ballots on electronic voting machines. The fact that we still rely on these machines for voting in an age of cyber warfare makes the stakes even higher.
 
  
Yet, electronic voting machines have continued to gain popularity ever since the  2000 presidential election  between Al Gore and George W. Bush. At the time, allegations were raised that a large portion of voters in Palm Beach, Fla. had unintentionally cast a ballot for Reform party candidate Pat Buchanan, instead of Gore, due to the confusing nature of the paper butterfly ballot in use. This led to the infamous, yet uneventful, Florida recount.
 
  
A move toward electronic machines has since helped to simplify the process for voters and limit the possibility for human error. Electronic machines, however, can still be hacked without leaving evidence of tampering. For example, in 2010,  researchers  from the University of Michigan and Princeton University purchased a used Sequoia AVC Edge touchscreen voting machine with intact tamper seals. Ultimately, the researchers were easily able to install a game of Pac-Man on the machine by simply reformatting the memory card to boot DOS, bypassing the tamper seals.
 
  
Even with known vulnerabilities, however, voters do not need to worry about large-scale rigging this coming Tuesday. Why is that? Simply put: the system is too big to fail.
 
  
“Something that people criticize as a weakness of our election system is actually one of its biggest strengths in regards to rigging,” said Tyler Kaczmarek, a fourth-year Ph.D. student with the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), who is currently working in applied cryptography under Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science  Gene Tsudik .
 
  
He is referring to the large and varying nature of election districts. During his past work on the development and deployment of an accessible, coercion-resistant voting machine, Kaczmarek discovered that the heterogeneous nature of the American voting system helps to safeguard it from fraudulent attacks.
 
  
There are nearly 8,000 jurisdictions that administer elections in the United States and each one uses a different method for collecting votes. A large variety of electronic voting  equipment  is available to states, including optical scan paper ballot systems, direct recording electronic (DRE) systems, ballot marking devices and systems, and punch-card voting systems. 

  
In Texas, for instance, voters may use a DRE system without a printer, while in California voters will use a different DRE system with a printer, which provides a paper trail to confirm the computer’s memory of who voted for what (think the paper receipt that prints out behind a plastic, tamper-proof cover that a voter must approve before officially casting her vote). Additionally, many jurisdictions still exclusively use paper ballots that will be manually counted at the polling place, as well as absentee and provisional voting paper ballots. All of this varies from state to state and even county to county.
 
  
All of this might seem confusing, but that’s the point. Even if a machine like the Sequoia AVC Edge can be individually hacked by simply removing the memory card, it would take a massive number of state actors, all with the exact same malicious intent, to physically be present at each polling place in order to affect the outcome of an election as large scale as the presidency.
 
  
“Since not everyone uses the same machines, and the machines aren’t connected to the Internet, the same vulnerability can’t multiply, “said Kaczmarek. If some voters were worried about hackers, say of the Russian variety, interfering in the presidential election they need not worry.
 
  
City and county elections are far more vulnerable to these types of in-person attacks since, hypothetically, it would take only one or two hacked machines to drastically change the outcome of a local race.
 
  
While new and improved voting machines continue to hit the market, voters should not expect to see older machines, some as timeworn as a decade or more, gone tomorrow. “They are incredibly expensive,” said Kaczmarek. “And not at the top of a fiscal year spending list for most states as they only get infrequent use.”
 
  
Voters weary of electronic machines have a simple answer: the paper ballot. It’s how Kaczmarek himself voted—early and by mail—this year. Luddites be warned: Nearly all paper ballots are tallied using electronic equipment. While a few low-population areas, such as certain smaller jurisdictions in Wisconsin, still rely on hand counts, they are the exception.
 
  
In the 2016 election and beyond, the electronic machines are here to stay for better or worse (but mostly for the better).


  
  Tyler Kaczmarek  is available for media inquiries and can be reached at tkaczmar at uci.edu. 


   How vulnerable are the nation’s electronic voting machines?
    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Anteaters unite in LA
              
                Next &gt; 
                 'The League' of Her Own
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 