 Ardalan Amiri Sani<body> 
  
       
           Advanced Operating System 
           
	   Instructor:   Ardalan Amiri Sani   
         
         
         Home  
          Schedule  
        

      
	This course will cover advanced topics in operating systems.
	The course will mostly consist of lectures by the instructor, but it will also have some presentations by the students.


	 Grading 
	     
            Paper presentation: 20% 
            
	    
            Paper summaries: 20% 
            
	    
            Course project: 40%
            
	    
            Class participation: 20%
            
          Paper presentations 

	     
	    Each presentation is performed by a team of students (2 to 3).
            
	    
	    Sign up for a presentation slot by sending me an email.
            
	    
	    Your email should contain the name of all the team members and your top three preferred presentation dates (see the  Schedule  tab for the available dates). 
	    Note that you're signing up for the dates and not the topics.
	    The schedule of topics discussed in each week is tentative and might change although that there is a good chance that it will not.
            
	    
	    Each presentation will be 30 minutes followed by 10 minutes of Q&amp;A.
            
	    
	    All the team members must engage in the presentation (ideally equally).
            
	    
	    Presentation will be graded based on quality of presentation and the students' understanding of the paper content.
            
          Paper summaries 

	     
	   Submit the summaries before the class starts.
            
	    
	    Submissions will be through EEE.
            
          Projects 

	     
	    Project is open for you to choose.
            Suggest a project that you think is related to the course.
            
	    
           The project can be related to your research but cannot be something that you have already done or you are doing as part of your ongoing research.
            
	    
            If you do not have an idea for the project, you can choose one of the default projects (to be announced in the class)	    
            
	    
	    Each project is performed by a team of students (2 to 5).
            
	    
	    Project proposal. Deadline: Jan. 22. Pick your team members and submit a one-page project proposal write-up. In the write-up, introduce the project, motivate it, explain what you will exactly implement, and present a timeline.
            
	    
	    Project midterm report. Deadline: Feb. 19. Submit a two-page midterm report. In the report, discuss what has been done and what is left to do. 
            
	    
	    Project final report. Deadline: Mar. 18. Submit a three-page final report. In the report, discuss the motivation, design, implementation, and evaluation of the system you have built. 
            
	    
	    Submissions will be through EEE.
            
            </body> 