 Chimera Archives: 2-4/98<body>

   
             Chimera Archives February-April, 1998 
         

         
              
       
             
                 Home 
             
         

         
             
                 What's New Archives: 02/98 to 04/98 
             

 April 17, 1998 

 
  Update to Netscape Wrapper 
 (3:10 PM PDT)  
 
 The Solaris Netscape Wrapper has been updated to fix a 
problem that prevented the wrapper from properly responding to delayed
link traversal events.  Get the fix on the
 software  page.
 
 
 

 
  Update to FrameMaker plug-in 
 (12:00 PM PDT)  
 
 The Chimera FrameMaker plug-in was updated to fix a 
problem that prevented FrameMaker from 
properly responding to delayed link traversal events.
Get the fix on the  software  page.
 
 
 

 April 15, 1998 

 
  Minor update to beta 2. 
 (6:00 PM PDT)  
 
 A small bug was fixed in the beta 2 release. The newly updated b2 release
is located on the  software  page. 
 
 

 
  Update to XEmacs integration 
 (5:30 PM PDT)  
 
 The chimera integration with XEmacs was updated to fix a problem that
prevented it from handling delayed link traversal events. Get the fix on
the  software  page. 
 
 

 
  New jimage source structure 
 (11:45 AM PDT)  
 
 The directory structure of the jimage client was changed. All sources
are now under the jimage directory. In addition, the makefiles were changed
to make building the binaries easier.
The updates are available from the
 software  page. 
 
 

 April 14, 1998 
 
  New beta version of Chimera 
 (6:25 PM PDT)  
 
 Beta 2 of Chimera 2 is now available from the
 software page . This release features support
for the 1.1 version of the Java Foundation Classes. The jimage image viewer
has been upgraded to JFC 1.1 to stay in synch with this release. 

 In addition, the C API was slightly modified. All c-based clients, such as
chimsh, should be relinked with the new version of the C API. A new version of
the FrameMaker 5 plug-in, that uses the new C API, is also available. 
 
 

 April 13, 1998 
 
  Minor client update. 
 (1:00 PM PDT)  
 
 The jimage client now writes the log data to a file. The log data now
shows the jimage version (1.0 beta 2) and the version date.
The reusable parts of the client were moved to a different package. The
updates are available, as always, from the
 software  page. 
 
 

 March 4, 1998 
 
  Minor client update. 
 (5:00 PM PST)  
 
 Small changes were made to the jimage client to work around a Swing
problem on Windows NT. Reusable parts of the client were extracted
into a separate package. Finally, javadoc documentation was included
in the jimage tar file. The updates are available, as always, from the
 software  page. 
 
 

 February 20, 1998 
 
  Minor source release update. 
 (3:00 PM PST)  
 
 A small change was made to the Chimera 2.0b1 source release. This
update removes an unnecessary call to load the Chimera home-page on
server start-up when what it was supposed to do was load the server's
HTML documentation. The Chimera jar file has been updated as well.
The updates are available, as always, from the
 software  page. 
 
 

 
  New client release. 
 (11:34 AM PST)  
 
 A very simple wrapper for the Solaris version of Netscape Navigator has
been released. This wrapper should be considered alpha software due to
the lack of documentation. Send questions about the wrapper to
 Ken Anderson . Download the
client from the  software  page. 
 
 

 February 19, 1998 
 
  Minor update and new client release. 
 (3:34 PM PST)  
 
 The Chimera 2.0b1 release has been updated to include a file missing from the included C API. The makefile for this API will now compile the library correctly. 
 In addition, the FrameMaker 5 plug-in for Solaris has been released. This plug-in integrates Chimera's open hypermedia services into FrameMaker 5 for Solaris. These services can be accessed via a Chimera menu that is added to the FrameMaker 5 menubar by the plug-in. 
 The updated Chimera 2.0b1 release and the FrameMaker plug-in are available from the  software  page. 
 
 

 February 17, 1998 
 
  New organization of the Chimera web-pages. 
 (6:00 PM PST)  
 
 The Chimera homepage has been updated. The new page features the version number of the current Chimera release in the upper left corner of the page, a navigation bar on the left-hand side of the page and a "What's New" section filling the rest of the page. Each selection in the navigation bar links to additional information about Chimera. The rest of the Chimera website will be updated to this new look over the next few weeks. Stay tuned to this page for updates on the Chimera 2.0 beta cycle. 
 
 

 February 13, 1998 

 
  Slight modification to Chimera source and class releases. 
 (1:15 PM PST) 
 
 
 The  software  page has been updated with new
releases of the chimera2b1.jar file and the chimera source releases. The
change to the jar file was to create it without compression. The size of the
jar file has increased 400k but it should now be possible to put it in a
CLASSPATH for direct use by all 1.1.x Java Virtual Machines. The source
release had four files that were located in the wrong directory. This caused
use errors when the source release was compiled in such a manner as to
place the .class files in the same directory as the cooresponding .java
files. 
 
 

 February 6, 1998 

 
  Chimera 2.0b1 external packages. 
 (5:06 PM PST) 
 
 
 The  Before You Install  page has been updated to reflect the external packages required by Chimera 2.0 to function properly. Be sure to acquire and install these packages before compiling or using the new Chimera 2.0b1 release. 
 
 

 
  Chimera 2.0b1 released! 
 (4:50 PM PST) 
 
 
 Chimera 2.0 has officially entered its beta cycle with the release of Chimera 2.0b1. New with this release is the ability to import and export Chimera's hypermedia information in XML format. Chimera's Document Type Definitions are stored at  &lt;http://www.ics.uci.edu/pub/chimera/dtd/&gt; . In addition, Chimera is now integrated with the  Rivendell Tool Server  which provides process invocation services and enables delayed link traversal. 

  Please bear with us!  The transistion to beta involves a lot of work on updating the website to track all of the changes. In particular, look for increased documentation, tutorials, and Chimera example clients as the beta cycle continues. 

 Installation instructions will be updated this weekend. Thrill-seekers can download the software now from the  software  page. 

 Stay tuned to this page in order to track updates to this website. 

 
 

           
       </body> 