  ICS Department News Page <body>

 
     

 
 
          

	

	Volume: 1   Issue: 1  

	 

	 

	

	January 20, 1997 

	 
	     
     
 
	

	   
	 
	   Table of Contents 
	   
	
Companies Join Forces to Establish New Computer Lab
	 

	   
	
Best Paper award to ICS researchers at EURO-DAC '96
	 

	   
	
UCI admitted to prestigious Association of American Universities 
	 

	   
	
ICS Research Symposium to be held on February 7th
	 

	   
	
Keynote Address by Gajski at Asia-South Pacific DA Conference
	 





	   Previous Issues 
	   
	   




	  
	 
	
	
	
Companies Join Forces to Establish New Computer Lab
	 
	 
	 

	

A group of southern California companies have joined forces to fund a new 
PC lab for ICS students.  Leading the effort was Ted Smith, President and 
CEO, FileNet Corporation, who made a personal as well as corporate gift.  

"Several companies came together to support this important enhancement to 
technology education at UCI.  Previously, ICS did not have a PC lab for 
instruction and local industry needs graduates trained to program Windows 
PCs.  We were pleased to participate in this mutually beneficial project 
for our companies and UCI," Smith said.

Companies which donated funds and equipment included
Artist Graphics, FileNet, Kofax Image Products, Microsoft, PacifiCare, 
Printronix, Rainbow Technologies, Rockwell, ViewSonic, Western Digital and 
Wonderware.  The donations totaled more than $185,000.

Located in the main ICS building, the new lab includes 30 Pentium computers 
running on a Windows NT server and one printer. The lab will be used to teach
object-oriented programming concepts in Java and Visual C++.

	  
	   

	  
	 
	
Best Paper award to ICS researchers at EURO-DAC '96

	 
	 
	 

	
Daniel D. Gajski, Professor of Information and Computer Science at UC Irvine,
with Hsiao-Ping Juan and Smita Bakshi, graduate students of Information and
Computer Science, received the Best Paper Award of the EURO-DAC '96 with
EURO-VHDL '96 conference in the field of Design Automation topics. Hsiao-Ping
Juan presented their paper, "Clock Optimization for High-Performance Pipelined
Design, " in
Geneva, Switzerland on September 19, 1996.  The award was given for
outstanding scientific work and professional presentation.

	  
	   



	  
	 
	
          UCI admitted to prestigious Association of American Universities 

	 
	 
	 

	

          UCI has been admitted to membership in the Association of American Universities, one of the nation's most
          prestigious associations of research universities. UCI was one of only two universities in the nation elected
          to membership this year, the other was UC Davis. 

          "The AAU membership demonstrates that our peers at private and public universities agree that UCI has
          arrived in the top echelons of American universities," Chancellor Laurel Wilkening said. "While AAU
          membership is one of the most recognizable honors among universities, many people outside of universities
          may not be familiar with its significance. It is similar to a private company being named to the 'Fortune 60'
          list." 

          AAU membership is by invitation only and is extended to universities deemed to have exceptional quality in
          research and graduate education programs. With the admission of UCI and UC Davis, AAU membership
          consists of 60 American universities and two Canadian universities. 

          AAU President Cornelius Pings said membership was extended to UCI and UC Davis following a lengthy
          review of prospective new members, which has been under way for more than three years. 

          "UCI is an exceptional institution that has many outstanding, nationally recognized research and education
          programs in a wide variety of areas," Pings said. "UCI has a clear vision for the future and is well positioned
          to continue building on its strengths in the years ahead." 

Further information available
 
here. 


	  
	   



	  
	 
	
ICS Research Symposium to be held on February 7th

	 
	 
	 

	
The
 
 ICS Research Symposium  
 consists of a 1-day lecture series
given by ICS faculty members on their research as well as
invited talks from industry. Topics covered will include 
appication-adaptive architectures, instruction-level parallelism,
embedded systems design, ``beyond JAVA" software environments,
distributed programming, optimization with genetic algorithms, 
data mining with massive data sets, and information
discovery on the internet. The symposium will be held on 
February 7th from 8am to 5pm in the McDonnell Douglas
Auditorium. Call Wendy Lasher at 714 724 8971 or email
wendy@ics.uci.edu to register. 

	  
	   



	  
	 
	
Keynote Address by Gajski at Asia-South Pacific DA Conference

	 
	 
	 

	
Professor Daniel Gajski will deliver a keynote address at
the Asia South Pacific Design Automation Conference, scheduled for 
Jan. 28-31 in Chiba, Japan.  Gajski's topic will be
 "CAD Methodology and Business Models for Future Products." 

	  
	   











	 
	 
	
	Previous Issues

	 
	 
	  

	    No previous issues yet (this is the first issue).

	   
	   
    
Editor: Padhraic Smyth    Information and Computer Science    University of California, Irvine,   
Irvine, CA 92697-3425  
Phone: (714) 824-7403  
Fax: (714) 824-4056 
 
 
   
</body> 