 ICS 10 Topics<body>
 ICS 10 • David G. Kay • UC Irvine 
 Overview of Course Topics 
 Below is a rough list of the topics
we covered this term.   
  
Fundamental concepts   
    Hardware, software, data, algorithm, program  
   
    Source code (human-prepared, e.g., Snap or
      HTML) vs. interpreted code (e.g., rendered web page) or object (executable,
      machine language) code; the idea of open-source software distribution vs. cloud distribution vs. conventional distribution of object code only  
   Efficiency (of human time and of computational resources); algorithms for the same task can have vastly different efficiency   
    
 Programming in Snap    Using the Snap environment 
     Categories of Snap blocks 
     Defining new blocks (procedures/functions/subroutines) with parameters 
     Defining and manipulating lists  
    
      
  Forms of information   
      Models and abstraction: hiding unnecessary detail  
     
      Representing information in computers   
          Bits and bytes; ASCII; numbers as ASCII, binary
            numbers, BCD; size and scale (KB, MB, GB, TB, ...)  
         
          Digitizing pictures (and other real-world information)   
              Sampling, quantization, color; resolution and
                bit depth  
              
          
     
      Compression and redundancy   
          Lossless vs. lossy; syntactic vs. semantic  
         
          Delta encoding, run-length encoding     Information visualization (Edward Tufte)   Accurate representation; multidimensional visualizations; focus on data rather than decoration or infrastructure  
             Potential consequences of good or bad visualization (London cholera, space shuttle) 
            
          Typography 
         Why natural language understanding is a hard problem to solve   
    
 
  The Internet   
      Services:  World-Wide Web, Email, file transfer/ftp,
      telnet (remote login), chat/IM, VOIP  
     
      Client machines, server machines, network backbone;
      what contributes to delays  
     
      Decentralized design; packet switching vs.
      circuit switching  
     
      The Web   
          Web browsers, concept of HTML, URLs, domain
          names 
         Operation of search engines like Google   
          
      
 
Computer characteristics and organization (including
the Deus X)   
    Memory, registers, instruction format  
   
    Sequential execution of instructions (instruction cycle: fetch,
      decode, execute)  
   
    Storage hierarchy (registers, RAM, secondary
      storage, e.g., disks); relative capacity vs. access time of various media; direct
      or random access storage (e.g., RAM, disks or CDs) vs. sequential access (e.g.,
      tapes)  
   
    Operating systems:  managing computational
      resources   
                process control (multitasking/timesharing),
                  security/authentication (what you know/have/are), memory management (virtual
            memory), file management 
             Backup schemes  
         
              User interface:  GUI vs. command-line  
          
   
    Machine-level vs. high-level programming languages:
      Going from a problem description to an executable program, how much is
      done automatically?  Procedural (how) vs. non-procedural (what) 
   Parallelism (concurrency): Splitting tasks among multiple processors, the inherent sequentiality of some tasks (e.g., elephant gestation) that prevents parallelism  
    
  Other areas of computer science   Human-computer interaction, user interfaces
      (ease of learning vs. ease of use, recognition vs. recall)  
      Pattern recognition and less-than-perfect matching; heuristics (e.g., weighted scoring of non-matching pixels in optical character recognition) 

     Social and legal impact of computing    Intellectual property law overview 
     Fair information practices (privacy) 
       
 Maxims    People time is more expensive than computer
        time  
        Electronic components are faster, cheaper,
        smaller, and more reliable than mechanical ones 
      
    
</body> 