 network synthesis spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Network Synthesis spotlight 

 
 

  Dynamic Duo</strong>
 
 
  
Adam Bonner (l) 
and Victor Liu
 
 
Victor Liu and Adam Bonner took a risk when graduating from the Bren School by foregoing the opportunity to join established companies. Instead they decided to branch out on their own. That gamble is starting to pay off.
 “At first I wondered what it would be like to work for one of the ‘big’ names – Microsoft or Andersen Consulting,” said Liu. “But I think by starting a whole new business, I was able to find a new way of thinking and a new way of accomplishing my goals. It takes a lot of willpower and determination to venture out on your own, but you learn so much more about who you really are.” 
 Liu and Bonner co-founded Network Synthesis even before claiming their degrees from the Bren School in May 2000. 
 A privately held company based in Irvine, Network Synthesis employs a staff of 13 – most of which have ties to UC Irvine and the Bren School. 
 “All of our technical staff comes from the Bren School,” said Bonner. “We like to keep close ties with the school and, having gone through the program ourselves, we know those students will be able to do the jobs that we are asking of them.” 
 Originally crafted as another consulting company, the small firm had early success. But a sluggish economy and an interest in specialization encouraged them to modify their course of action. And in October 2002, Network Synthesis launched a new digital security surveillance system, DS3, that was some 15 months in development.  
 
 Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.
 
 DS3 is a complete digital security surveillance solution that provides full-motion video capture with unlimited camera support, digital and redundant storage, and remote and wireless digital control. DS3’s complete online interface enables security officers as well as any authorized personnel to monitor and manage a facility from literally anywhere. 
 “The system replaces the countless number of VHS tapes companies use in traditional surveillance systems with webbased video cameras recording all of the activity digitally,” explained Bonner. “One of the differences in our system is the ability to manage all of this video via the Internet, giving companies true 24/7 access to all of their video data.” 
 Currently in negotiations with several entertainment and emergency services organizations, Network Synthesis is on the cusp of realizing its vision and seeing that early gamble pay big dividends. 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 