 Clara Marques Caldeira 
 
	 
      
        
         
              Clara Marques Caldeira 
                Informatics PhD student 
             
             
                  
               Home  
                      Publications  
                      Contact  
                  I am a PhD student in the Informatics department at University of California, Irvine. My research focuses on using technology to assist people to manage their own health, particularly underserved populations such as older adults, and people with chronic conditions. I am currently investigating self-tracking as an approach to health management for older adults. I am interested in both qualitative and quantitative research methods, as well as user-centered design. I have a B.S. in Computer Science from University of Brasilia, Brazil, and prior to my PhD I have worked in web and mobile app development for two years.  

                 I am a member of the Health and Informactics lab at UC Irvine, and my advisor is professor  Yunan Chen . My CV can be found  here . 
                
                
                
             Publications 

                 Clara Caldeira, Matthew Bietz, Mari Vidauri, and Yunan Chen. "Senior Care for Aging in Place: Balancing Assistance and Independence" In  Proceedings of the 20th ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work &amp; Social Computing. (CSCW)  ACM, 2017. 

                 Clara Caldeira, Matthew Bietz, and Yunan Chen. "Looking for the unusual: How the elderly utilize self-tracking for health management" In  Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare (PervasiveHealth) , 2016 10th International Conference on. IEEE, 2016. 

                 Neeraj Kumar, Consuelo López, Clara Caldeira, Swanand Pethe, Bixia Si, and Alfred Kobsa. "CalNag: Effortless multiuser calorie tracking." In  2016 IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communication (PerCom) , pp. 1-4. IEEE, 2016. 


                 Clara Caldeira, Claus Aranha, and Guilherme Ramos. "TORCS Training Interface: An auxiliary API for developing TORCS drivers." In  XII Simpósio Brasileiro de Jogos e Entretenimento Digital (SBGames) . 2013. 
               
             Contact 
                          Email:  claram@uci.edu  
                         I currently sit at the LUCI Lab (5069 Donald Bren Hall) 
                          
                        		Mail to:  
                        		Clara Marques Caldeira  
                        	  Department of Informatics  
							  5000 Donald Bren Hall   Irvine, CA 92697-3440  
                             
                    
              Layout © 2012 Thiago Nunes
             
    
    	
    	
    
 








    
    </body> 