 Geometry in Action: Earth Sciences<body>

 
 
  
 
  
  Earth Sciences 
     
Applications of 3d Delaunay triangulation algorithms in geoscientific modeling , R. Lattuada and J. Raper.
Uses 3d DT for shape reconstruction of 3d geographic objects such as aquifers, ocean currents, and weather fronts.
 
    The
DoD groundwater modeling system  uses
natural neighbor interpolation for groundwater plume characterization.
 
    Dynamic Weighted
Delaunay Triangulations for Efficient Collision
Detection in Distinct Element Modeling and
Simulation of Granular Media ,
Jean-Albert Ferrez, EPFL.
 
    Geometric morphology of granular materials .
B. R. Schlei, L. Prasad, and A. N. Skourikhine
use constrained Delaunay meshing and chordal axis transforms
to identify grains and determine statistical features
in micrographs of porous media in order to obtain input for
hydrodynamic calculations.
For more information,
see  Schlei's web site ,
and their additional papers
" A
geometric transform for shape feature extraction " and
" Feature-based syntactic and metric shape recognition ".
 
    Image
Processing and Pattern Recognition in Soil Structure .  D. Luo of
Glasgow uses convex hulls and other geometric techniques to analyze
images of soil particles.
 
    Rocpack - A 3D Particle Packing Algorithm" .
Sphere packing applications in rocket propellant particle simulations.
Part of a larger package for simulating solid-gas combustion interfaces.
Similar ideas look likely to be useful for simulating soils or other
particulate materials.
 
    Spherulites ,
a crystal growth formation closely related to Voronoi diagrams and
arising in modeling of geological materials, vitamins and red blood
cells, and thermoplastics.
 
    Three
Dimensional Medial Axis Analysis of the Void Structure of Geological
Materials , Coker, Lindquist, and Lee, BAPSPC '95. (Abstract only.)
See also  Medial axis
analysis of three dimensional tomographic images of drill core
samples , a journal submission by the same authors.
 
     
Part of
 Geometry in Action ,
a collection of applications of computational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 