 Euler's Formula<body>
     
  Twenty Proofs of Euler's Formula: V-E+F=2 

 Many theorems in mathematics are important enough that they have been
proved repeatedly in surprisingly many different ways.  Examples of this
include
 the
existence of infinitely many prime numbers ,
 the evaluation of
zeta(2) ,
the fundamental theorem of algebra (polynomials have roots), quadratic
reciprocity (a formula for testing whether an arithmetic progression
contains a square) and the Pythagorean theorem (which according to
 Wells  has at least 367 proofs).
This also sometimes happens for unimportant theorems,
such as the fact that in any rectangle dissected into smaller rectangles,
if each smaller rectangle has integer width or height, so does the
large one. 

 This page lists proofs of the Euler formula:
for any convex polyhedron, the number of vertices and faces together
is exactly two more than the number of edges.
Symbolically V−E+F=2.
For instance, a tetrahedron has four vertices, four faces, and six edges;
4-6+4=2. 

 A version of the formula dates over 100 years earlier than Euler, to Descartes in 1630. Descartes gives a discrete form of the Gauss-Bonnet theorem, stating that the sum of the face angles of a polyhedron is 2π(V−2), from which he infers that the number of plane angles is 2F+2V-4. The number of plane angles is always twice the number of edges, so this is equivalent to Euler's formula, but later authors such as  Lakatos ,  Malkevitch , and Polya disagree, feeling that the distinction between face angles and edges is too large for this to be viewed as the same formula. The formula V−E+F=2 was (re)discovered by Euler; he wrote about it twice in 1750, and in 1752  published the result , with a faulty proof by induction for triangulated polyhedra based on removing a vertex and retriangulating the hole formed by its removal. The retriangulation step does not necessarily preserve the convexity or planarity of the resulting shape, so the induction does not go through.
Another early attempt at a proof, by Meister in 1784, is essentially the  triangle removal proof  given here, but without justifying the existence of a triangle to remove.
In 1794,  Legendre  provided a complete proof, using  spherical angles .
Cauchy got into the act in 1811, citing Legendre and adding incomplete proofs based on triangle removal,  ear decomposition , and tetrahedron removal from a tetrahedralization of a partition of the polyhedron into smaller polyhedra.
 Hilton and Pederson  provide more references
as well as entertaining speculation on Euler's discovery of the formula. Confusingly, other equations such as  e   i  pi  = -1
and  a  phi( n )  = 1 (mod  n )
also go by the name of "Euler's formula"; Euler was a busy man. 

 The polyhedron formula, of course, can be generalized in many important ways,
some using methods described below.
One important generalization is to planar graphs.
To form a planar graph from a polyhedron,
place a light source near one face of the polyhedron, and a plane on the other side. 

   

 The shadows of the polyhedron edges form a planar graph, embedded in
such a way that the edges are straight line segments.
The faces of the polyhedron correspond to convex
polygons that are faces of the embedding.  The face nearest the light
source corresponds to the outside face of the embedding, which is also
convex.  Conversely, any planar graph with certain connectivity
properties comes from a polyhedron in this way. 

 Some of the proofs below use only the topology of the planar graph,
some use the geometry of its embedding, and some use the
three-dimensional geometry of the original polyhedron.
Graphs in these proofs will not necessarily be  simple :
edges may connect a vertex to itself, and two vertices may be connected
by multiple edges.  Several of the proofs rely on the Jordan curve
theorem, which itself has multiple proofs; however these are not
generally based on Euler's formula so one can use Jordan curves without
fear of circular reasoning. 
   
Proof 1: Interdigitating Trees
    
Proof 2: Induction on Faces
    
Proof 3: Induction on Vertices
    
Proof 4: Induction on Edges
    
Proof 5: Divide and Conquer
    
Proof 6: Electrical Charge
    
Proof 7: Dual Electrical Charge
    
Proof 8: Sum of Angles
    
Proof 9: Spherical Angles
    
Proof 10: Pick's Theorem
    
Proof 11: Ear Decomposition
    
Proof 12: Shelling
    
Proof 13: Triangle Removal
    
Proof 14: Noah's Ark
    
Proof 15: Binary Homology
    
Proof 16: Binary Space Partition
    
Proof 17: Valuations
    
Proof 18: Hyperplane Arrangements
    
Proof 19: Integer-Point Enumeration
    
Proof 20: Euler tours
 
   
All Proofs
    
References
   

Please  send email 
if you know of a proof not listed here.
I would especially appreciate proofs involving cohomology theory,
toric varieties, or other higher mathematics.
(Helena Verrill has shown that
 Euler's
formula is equivalent to the fact that every toric variety over GF[p]
has a number of points equal to 1 (mod p) 
but is still missing a nice non-combinatorial proof of the latter fact.)

 I imagine it would be possible to construct inductions
based on the representation of convex polyhedra as intersections
of halfspaces or convex hulls of points, but the need to
handle inputs in non-general position would make the resulting
proofs quite messy.
  
There also seems to be a potential connection
to binomials: if one defines a polynomial
p(t) = 1+Vt+Et 2 +Ft 3 +t 4 , the Euler
formula can be interpreted
as saying that p(t) is divisible by 1+t.
But for simplices of any dimension,
p(t)=(1+t) d+1  by the binomial formula.
Perhaps there is a proof of Euler's formula that uses
these polynomials directly rather than merely translating
one of the inductions into polynomial form.
 Jim Propp
asks similar questions for infinite-dimensional polytopes ,
interpreting p(t) as a power series
(see also  his recent
expansion of these ideas ).
     
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file.
Last update: .  </body> 