 
	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
     
		News     
	         
		  Paper accepted in MSR-2015!  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on March 19, 2015 at 10:43 pm 				 
					
		 Congratulations Lee!! L. Martie and A. van der Hoek, “Sameness: An Experiment in Code Search”, Proceedings of the 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories. 
     
    
         
		  Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams?  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on March 19, 2015 at 10:38 pm 				 
					
		 We have just categorized 441 comments Lee Martie collected in his latest experiment with CodeExchange. It took 1h15min for a crowd of nine people to do the job! 
     
    
         
		  We won the Reddit Hackathon!  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on February 9, 2015 at 1:25 pm 				 
					
		 The competition happened on Jan 10th and is part of a new data science initiative aimed at coordinating UCI scientists who are working on various aspects of data science. Our team was composed by Christian Adriano (SDCL), Vijay Palepu (Spider Lab), and Rianne Conijn (visitor Master student). 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Fernando  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on February 6, 2015 at 11:10 am 				 
					
		 Welcome Fernando! Fernando Spanghero is a new master student joining our research group. His interested in software design, more specifically in developing sketching tools. 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Martín  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on February 6, 2015 at 10:57 am 				 
					
		 Welcome Martín! Martín Medina is a new master student joining our research group. He has work experience in software development and he will be working with Lee Martie in CodeExchange project. 
     
    
         
		  Congrats Dr. Nick Lopez  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on December 5, 2014 at 1:48 pm 				 
					   
		 Congrats are in order to Nick Lopez, who just finished defending his Ph.D. dissertation on the impact of non-determinism of LDA in software engineering! Afterwards, there was a post-defense celebratory lunch! 
     
    
         
		  Nick dissertation award!  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on November 20, 2014 at 9:04 pm 				 
					   
		 Nick Mangano receives his ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Dissertation Award at FSE 2014 in Hong Kong, and is supported by Lee and Thomas who are both there as well to present at the Context workshop. 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Consuelo  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on October 8, 2014 at 10:02 am 				 
					
		 Welcome Consuelo! Consuelo Lopez is a new master student joining our research group. She has work experience in software quality and she is currently interested in developing tools for software design. 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Arturo and Fabio  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on September 15, 2014 at 6:27 pm 				 
					
		 Welcome Arturo Di Lecce and Fabio Ricci! Arturo and Fabio join us from Politecnico di Milano in Italy, where they are currently masters students. They’ll be visiting SDCL in sunny California for the next year and will be working on projects related to crowd programming and crowd design. 
     
    
         
		  Thesis Defense Congratulations  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on August 22, 2014 at 12:26 pm 				 
					
		 Micky and Lucy have graduated cum laude with their M.S. degrees from the University of Amsterdam. The research they performed in SDCL uncovered interesting aspects of crowdsourcing software design. We are hard at work on a paper summarizing their findings. 
     
    
    
		         
              « Previous Page  
              Next Page »  
              
         
                    
     
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 