 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Articles  


     
  

 
 

  March 23,  2016</strong>      Dean Stern co-chairs panel on driver fatigue research methods, statistical approaches

</strong>      
 Hal Stern</strong>, Ted and Janice Smith Family Foundation Dean and professor of statistics, is spearheading the effort to gather better research and minimize risks for commercial motor carriers as co-chair of a new National Academy of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine research panel. The “ Panel on Research Methodologies and Statistical Approaches to Understanding Driver Fatigue Factors in Motor Carrier Safety and Driver Health ” seeks to improve research methods on commercial motor vehicle (CMV) operators and their sleep and safety habits while on the job. Matthew Rizzo, Francis and Edgar Reynolds Professor at the University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, serves as Stern’s fellow co-chair.

  
“Approximately 4,000 fatalities due to truck and bus crashes occur each year, 10 percent to 20 percent of which are estimated to involve fatigued drivers,” according to a  news release  on the panel’s latest report. CMV operators are at particular risk of insufficient sleep due to the stressors of their work, such as irregular schedules and economic pressures. CMV operators also have a higher risk of developing chronic health problems due to such stressors, including “obstructive sleep apnea, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, adult-onset diabetes, and other conditions commonly associated with obesity,” according to the news release.

  
Still, research on the CMV operator demographic is complicated “by the difficulty of measuring driver fatigue objectively, invasive nature of capturing measures of the amount and quality of drivers' sleep, and many factors contributing to crashes that are unrelated to lack of sleep,” the news release says. An additional data gap stems from the difficulty of obtaining quality data from small carriers compared to large carriers.

  
With these research difficulties in mind, the panel recommends the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) to improve their research methods. Specifically, it calls on the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and/or the U.S. Department of Transportation to “fund, design, and conduct an ongoing survey that will allow longitudinal comparisons of CMV drivers to enable tracking of changes in their health status and the factors likely to be associated with those changes over time.”

  
For more information, see the complete record at the National Academies’  Current Project site .







   Dean Stern co-chairs panel on driver fatigue research methods, statistical approaches

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 