 
	conference – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
     
		conference     
	         
		  Consuelo’s ICSE-2016 presentation  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on May 17, 2016 at 7:04 pm 				 
					
		 Consuelo presenting our research* on Crowd Design in ICSE crowdsourcing workshop (CSI-SE-2016).   * Toward Microtask Crowdsourcing Software Design Work Authors: Edgar R.Q. Weidema, Consuelo López, Sahand Nayebaziz, Fernando Spanghero and André van der Hoek  Photograph taken by Thomas La Toza (thanks!) 
     
    
         
		  SDCL at ASE 2015!  
		 
					Posted by  lmartie  on November 15, 2015 at 9:43 pm 				 
					   
		 Lee Martie at ASE 2015 presenting “CodeExchange: Supporting Reformulation of Internet-Scale Code Queries in Context”. This was joint work between Lee Martie, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek. 
     
    
         
		  Lee’s MSR 2015 talk  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on May 16, 2015 at 4:59 am 				 
					
		 Lee has just presented his paper “Sameness: An Experiment in Code Search”. 
     
    
         
		  ICSE 2014  
		 
					Posted by  tlatoza  on June 13, 2014 at 5:03 pm 				 
					
		 Two members of SDCL – André and Thomas – attended ICSE 2014 in Hyderabad, India. André served as a Program Chair of ICSE, helping to select the program of ICSE. Thomas served as an organizer of a new workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSI-SE). Both ICSE and CSI-SE went very well, and we had […] 
     
    
    
		         
              
              
              
         
                    
     
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 