 graduate student wins nsf fellowship spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Graduate Student Wins NSF Fellowship 

 
 

     
 
  Sen Hirano 
 
  This spring, Sen Hirano was awarded a prestigious and highly coveted  National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship . He also earned his master’s degree from UC Irvine and will now pursue a Ph.D. in Informatics. As one of 20 UCI students who were named NSF Fellows in 2011, Hirano will receive an annual stipend and cost-of-education allowance for three years, plus a one-time travel allowance. The 20 fellowships add up to more than $2.5 million to support research at UCI. Following is a profile of Hirano and his work.    
 Committed to helping others, Sen Hirano for the past two years has been working on Estrellia, a mobile device developed for new parents to track their baby’s activity throughout the day. 
 “It is meant to be a health indicator,” explains Hirano. “For example, parents can easily track how many diapers they go through each day, take that information to their doctor, and see if it’s normal.” 
 
 As an undergraduate at UCI, Hirano and his research teammates worked on vSked, an interactive visual scheduling system that helps children with autism reach their full potential in the classroom — by using a system of touch screen devices to streamline classroom activities and encourage collaboration among students and staff. 
 Hirano says his fondness for research stems from the children and communities that benefit from his work.  
 “Being able to work with populations like special education teachers is particularly motivating, because of the passion they have to care for their students,” he says. 
 Informatics Assistant Professor Gillian Hayes, who serves as Hirano’s advisor, first met him as an undergraduate in her Projects in Ubiquitous Computing class. 
 According to Hayes: “What struck me most about him then, and is still the case now, is that Sen has a unique combination of creativity, passion and work ethic that allows him to overcome challenges in his research and see opportunities where others may not. Sen is also an incredibly generous team player, which makes him a pleasure to advise.” 
 Hirano credits Hayes, fellow graduate student Jed Brubaker and others in his lab with helping him prepare a successful application for the NSF Fellowship. 
 
“Talking with other people about my NSF application helped me streamline my ideas,” says Hirano, a second-time applicant to the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program. “Also, the feedback I received from the NSF on my first application really helped make my second one better. This time around, I tried to make my application one story and tie all of it together.” 
  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 