 undergraduate degree in computer science @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  Degrees  


     
 Undergraduate degree in Computer Science 

 
 

  DEGREES AVAILABLE: Major </strong> 
   
 Computer science is the catalyst for every evolutionary – and revolutionary – step in computer development. 
 From mathematical theories, data structures and algorithms to the operating systems and programs that employ them, an understanding of computer science is essential if you wish to develop the next advances in computer technology and applications. 
 The Computer Science program at UC Irvine is internationally recognized for its unique group of faculty and researchers, outstanding students and cutting edge educational programs. 
   ›  Is Computer Science for me?   ›  What do I take?   ›  How do I choose a CS Specialization?   ›  What can I do with this degree?   ›  Still not sure?    
    
 Is Computer Science for me? 
The Computer Science major emphasizes the principles of computing that underlie our modern world, and provides a strong foundational education to prepare students for the broad spectrum of careers in computing. This major can serve as preparation for either graduate study or a career in industry. Students receive a solid background in low-level architecture and systems; middle-level infrastructure, algorithms, and mathematical foundations. This is a highly flexible degree that allows students to explore a broad range of topics in modern computing. In order to achieve some focus in their upper-division studies, students are required to satisfy the requirements for one of the eight specializations described below.    
  Algorithms.</strong> This specialization focuses on fundamental computational techniques, including their analysis and applications to topics in computer vision, computer games, graphics, artificial intelligence, and information retrieval. Topics include data structures, graph and network algorithms, computational geometry, probabilistic algorithms, complexity theory, and cryptography. 
  Architecture and Embedded Systems.</strong> This specialization integrates principles of embedded systems, software, hardware, computer architecture, distributed systems and networks, and prepares students to design and create efficient hardware/software architectures for emerging application areas. Students in this specialization will build upon a strong foundation in software and hardware and learn how to design networked embedded systems, and efficient computer architectures for a diverse set of application domains such as gaming, visualization, search, databases, transaction processing, data mining, and high-performance and scientific computing. 
  Bioinformatics.</strong> This specialization introduces students to the interdisciplinary intersection of biology and medicine with computer science and information technology. Students who complete the specialization will understand biomedical computing problems from the computer science perspectives, and be able to design and develop software that solves computational problems in biology and medicine. 
  General Computer Science.</strong> This specialization allows students to acquire a well-rounded knowledge of computer science that may be tailored to their individual interests. Students choose 11 upper-division computer science courses, including two project courses. This specialization will appeal to those who are interested in a broad education in computer science, or who wish to create their own unique specialization not found in the current list of (other) specializations under this major. 
  Information.</strong> This specialization is intended to prepare students for working with and developing a wide variety of modern data and information systems. Topics covered by this concentration include database management, information retrieval, Web search, data mining, and data-intensive computing. 
  Intelligent Systems.</strong> This specialization will introduce students to the principles underlying intelligent systems, including topics such as representing human knowledge, building automated reasoning systems, developing intelligent search techniques, and designing algorithms that adapt and learn from data. Students in this specialization will use these principles to solve problems across a variety of applications such as computer vision, information retrieval, data mining, automated recommender systems, bioinformatics, as well as individually designed projects. 
  Networked Systems.</strong> This specialization focuses on Internet architecture, Internet applications, and network security. It also encourages students to learn about operating systems, databases, search, programming, embedded systems, and performance. 
  Systems and Software.</strong> This specialization deals with principles and design of systems and software. It emphasizes the interaction between software and the computing infrastructure on which it runs and the performance impact of design decisions. Core topics include the hardware/software interface, languages and compilers, operating systems, parallel and distributed computing. Elective topics include networking, security, graphics, and databases. 
  Visual Computing.</strong> This specialization encompasses the digital capture, processing, synthesis and display of visual data such as images and video. This specialization includes computer vision, image processing, and graphics, and covers such topics as the representation of 3D objects, visual recognition of objects and people, interactive and photo-realistic image rendering, and physics and perception of light and color. 
 ↑  Back to top  
  
 What do I take? 
For a full listing of courses required for the major, see the  General Catalogue .
 Students are encouraged to consult an academic advisor in the Bren School of ICS to determine the coursework designed to meet their educational goals. 
 ↑  Back to top     
 How do I choose a CS Specialization? 
 Your specialization should by driven by your individual interests. Please use the following resources to guide you: 
  Watch our  CS specialization Q &amp; A with ICS Student Affairs and Prof. Ian Harris . [ transcript ] 
 View the  CS specialization slideshow  discussed in the Q &amp; A. 
 Explore  CS research areas  to identify and connect with faculty. 
 Check out the syllabi of  specialization courses  and find out which overlap. 
 For a detailed list of what courses are required for each specialization, consult the  General Catalogue . 
 When you're ready to declare, submit a  CS specialization request form  online. 
    
 ↑  Back to top     
 What can I do with this degree? 
  Graduates of the Computer Science program will be in a position to pursue a variety of careers that involve the design and development of embedded systems, programming languages, compilers, networks and operating systems. 
 They can be principal designers or involved in implementation, typically at companies that design, implement and sell these products. They may find themselves in charge of large-scale deployments and/or customizations at the organizations that use them. 
 Finally, the strong scientific preparation allows students to become involved in such areas as artificial intelligence and computational biology – whether in graduate school or industry. 
 Many students also go on to graduate school, continuing their studies, conducting research, and earning graduate degrees in software engineering, computer science, information science, management and law. 
 ↑ Back to top  
  
 Still not sure? 
  
Prospective and current UCI students interested in learning more about the Bren School’s degree options are encouraged to meet with the school’s 
counselors and student ambassadors. They will help you determine which of our majors and minors best support your academic strengths and 
interests. Call our Student Affairs Office at 949-824-5156 to make an appointment. 
 
  ↑ Back to top  


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 