  Computational Geometry Auxiliary Notes<body>





 
  
Computational Geometry Auxiliary Notes 
 

 
Please find below auxiliary content and notes that are in addition to
material that is found in the textbook. Note: some of the links on
this page are
only accessible through online libraries that are restricted to
campus computers. So please view this page from a campus computer or
through a campus VPN.

  
   Additional Readings:   

  
 The Jarvis March Convex Hull Method: 
  
 
Gift wrapping convex hull algorithm .

    
 Chan's Simple Output-Sensitive Convex Hull Algorithm  (mostly for
cs266 students):
  
T.M. Chan,
 
 Optimal output-sensitive convex hull algorithms in two and three
 dimensions ,
 Discrete and Computational Geometry,
 Springer New York, Volume 16, Number 4 / April, 1996,
 Pages	361-368.

    
 Divide-and-conquer convex hulls :
  
Some nice slides on 
 
the divide-and-conquer approach for convex hulls 
  
Analyzing divide-and-conquer algorithms using
 The Master
Theorem .
    
 Upper hull binary search .
Reading Section 1-3 in the following paper gives the binary search
method:
  
Overmars and van Leeuwen,
 
Maintenance of Configurations in the Plane .
    
 The Four Color Theorem: 
  
 
Discussion from wikipedia .
    
 Polygon triangulation: 
  
 
Some nice notes by Subhash Suri .
  
Yap,
 
Parallel triangulation of a polygon in two calls to the trapezoidal
map . This paper is a parallel version of a simple method for
polygon triangulation based on two calls to an algorithm for
computing trapezoidal maps.
    
 Range trees: 
  
Willard,
 
New Data Structures for Orthogonal Range Queries
 .
  
Chazelle and Guibas,
  
Fractional cascading: I. A data structuring technique   
Fractional cascading: II. Applications 
      
 Point location: 
  
Sarnak and Tarjan,
 
Planar point location using persistent search trees
 .
    
 3D Convex Hulls: 
  
 Chan's
Implementation of 3D Divide-and-Conquer Convex Hulls .
  
 
Connection between convex hulls and Delaunay triangulations .
     
    
  Goodrich's Home Page.    </body> 