 Computational Geometry<body>
 ICS 161: Design and Analysis of Algorithms 
Lecture notes for March 7, 1996 


   

 Computational Geometry 

 What is computational geometry? 

Many situations in which we need to write programs involve
computations of a geometric nature. 

  

  For instance, in  video
games  such as Doom, the computer must display scenes from a
three-dimensional environment as the player moves around. This
involves determining where the player is, what he or she would see
in different directions, and how to translate this
three-dimensional information to the two-dimensional computer
screen. A data structure known as a  binary space partition  is
commonly used for this purpose. 

  
 

 In order to control  robot
motion , the computer must generate a model of the obstacles
surrounding the robot, find a position for the robot that is
suitable for whatever action the robot is asked to perform,
construct a plan for moving the robot to that position, and
translate that plan into controls of the robot's actuators. One
example of this sort of problem is parallel parking a car -- how
can you compute a plan for entering or leaving a parking spot,
given a knowledge of nearby obstacles (other cars) and the turning
radius of your own car? 

  
 

 In  scientific
computation  such as the simulation of the airflow around a
wing, one typically partitions the space around the wing into
simple regions such as triangles (as shown below), and uses some
simple approximation (such as a linear function) for the flow in
each region. The computation of this approximation involves the
numerical solution of differential equations and is outside the
scope of this class. But where do these triangles come from?
Typically the actual input consists of a description of the wing's
outline, and some algorithm must construct the triangles from that
input -- this is another example of a geometric computation. 
    

 For more descriptions of these and other applications of
computational geometry, see my web site " Geometry in
Action ". 

 Today's lecture will describe algorithms for two simple
geometric problems: determining whether a point is in a polygon,
and finding  convex hulls . Next quarter I will be offering
ICS 164, a class devoted entirely to geometric algorithms, in which
I'll describe some more algorithms and applications, for instance
the binary space partitions used by Doom. 

 Polygons 

A  polygon  is just a collection of line segments, forming a
cycle, and not crossing each other. We can represent it as a
sequence of points, each of which is just a pair of coordinates.
For instance the points 

 
    (0,0),  (0,1),  (1,1),  (1,0)
 

form a square. The line segments of the polygon connect adjacent
points in the list, together with one additional segment connecting
the first and last point. 

 Not all sequences of points form a polygon; for instance the
points 

 
    (0,-1),  (0,1),  (1,0),  (0,-1)
 

would result in two segments that cross each other. Sometimes we
use the phrase  simple polygon  to emphasize the requirement
that no two segments cross. 

 Testing if a point is in a polygon 

It is a famous theorem (the  Jordan curve theorem ) that any
polygon cuts the plane into exactly two connected pieces: the  
inside  and the  outside . (The inside always has some
finite size, while the outside contains points arbitrarily far from
the polygon.) Actually, the Jordan curve theorem is more generally
true of certain curves in the plane, not just shapes formed by
straight line segments; the more general fact is often proved by
approximating these curves by polygons. 

 For uncomplicated enough polygons, it's easy to see by eye which
parts of the plane are inside and which are outside. But this is
not always easy. For instance is the marked point inside the
following polygon? 

   

  Seemingly even more difficult, we'd like to answer questions
like this on a computer, which doesn't have built into it the
powerful visual processing system that we have, and can only deal
with this sort of problem by translating it to a collection of
numbers. The general problem we'd like to solve is, given a point
(x,y) (represented by those two numbers) and a polygon P
(represented by its sequence of vertices), is (x,y) in P, on the
boundary, or outside? 

 This is a commonly occurring problem, enough so that it is one
of the most  frequently
asked questions  on the comp.graphics.algorithms newsgroup. For
instance if you want to display a polygon on a computer screen, you
need to be able to test whether each pixel of the screen
corresponds to a point that's inside or outside the polygon, so you
can tell what color to draw it. 

 Fortunately the problem has a simple and elegant answer. Just
draw a ray (portion of a line extending infinitely in one
direction) down (or in any other direction) from (x,y): 

   

  Every time the polygon crosses this ray, it separates a part of
the ray that's inside the polygon from a part that's outside.
Eventually the ray will get far from the polygon, at which point we
know that that part is outside the polygon. We can then work
backwards from there, declaring different parts of the ray to be
inside or outside alternately at each crossing. Actually, we don't
even need to look at what order these crossings occur in; all we
really need to know is whether there's an even or odd number of
them. In the example shown above, there are eight crossings, so the
point is outside the polygon. 

 We can now write a rough outline of pseudo-code for this
problem: 

 
    int crossings = 0
    for (each line segment of the polygon)
        if (ray down from (x,y) crosses segment)
            crossings++;
    if (crossings is odd)
        return (inside);
    else return (outside);
 

 Details of the point-in-polygon routine 

Normally when we do computational geometry, we'd just stop here.
All the rest is details to be filled in only when you actually
write a program. But it's useful to see, at least once, what this
sort of detail looks like. 

 As we'll see, we also need to be a little more careful:
crossings can also occur at vertices of the polygon, and we haven't
checked whether (x,y) sits exactly on the boundary. First let's see
how to implement the steps of this pseudo-code. 

 How do we tell if the ray down from (x,y) crosses the segment
between two points (x1,y1) and (x2,y2)? All points of the ray have
the same first coordinate x. If this is to be between (x1,y1) and
(x2,y2) then x should be between x1 and x2; either (x1&lt;x and
x&lt;x2) or (x1&gt;x and x&gt;x2). We can write this more
succinctly as (x1-x)(x2-x)&lt;0 but this might actually slower
since it involves a high-precision multiplication. 

 Now suppose x is between x1 and x2. Where is the crossing point?
Does it have a smaller second coordinate than y? One definition of
the line determined by points (x1,y1) and (x2,y2) is that it
consists of all points of the form 

 
    (t x1 + (1-t)x2, t y1 + (1-t)y2)
 

where different values of t give different points on the line. To
find the second coordinate of the crossing, let's use the known
value of the first coordinate to solve for t: 

 
    x = t x1 + (1-t)x2

    t = (x - x2) / (x1 - x2)

    crossing = (x, t y1 + (1-t)y2)
 

Note that we can also tell if (x,y) is exactly on the line segment
by testing whether y=crossing. Here's a little problem: this
formula might involve a division by zero. But in that case x1=x2 so
x couldn't be between the two. As long as we only compute t when x
is between x1 and x2, we're safe. Let's plug these formulas into
our pseudo-code. We'll let n denote the number of points in the
polygon, and P(i).x and P(i).y denote the coordinates of point (i
mod n). 

 
    int crossings = 0
    for (int i = 0; i &lt; n; i++)
        if ((P(i).x &lt; x &amp;&amp; x &lt; P(i+1).x) || (P(i).x &gt; x &amp;&amp; x &gt; P(i+1).x))
        {
            t = (x - P(i+1).x) / (P(i).x - P(i+1).x)
            cy = t*P(i).y + (1-t)*P(i+1).y
            if (y == cy) return (on boundary)
            else if (y &gt; cy) crossings++;
        }
    if (crossings is odd)
        return (inside);
    else return (outside);
 

Finally, what happens if the ray from (x,y) passes exactly through
a vertex of P? Sometimes this should count as a crossing, but
sometimes the ray only "grazes" P and shouldn't count as a
crossing. There are lots of cases to consider, so this may be
confusing. A standard way to cut through this sort of complication
is to  perturb  the problem: move the points slightly so these
special cases don't happen. For instance, we could move the point
(x,y) just a tiny amount to the right; this won't change whether
it's inside or outside the polygon but will change whether the ray
crosses through any vertices. In fact, we can perform this
perturbation only in our minds, and let it guide us in thinking
about solving the problem, without actually moving any points.
Suppose the ray would cross a vertex before it was perturbed. After
the perturbation, which edges would it cross? Just the ones that go
to the right of the vertex. We can test the two rays out of the
vertex and see which of them go rightwards, and adjust the count
accordingly. Again, we also need to be careful about testing
whether the point is exactly on the boundary of the polygon; the
most complicated case is when this happens on a vertical line
segment. 

 
    int crossings = 0
    for (int i = 0; i &lt; n; i++)
    {
        if ((P(i).x &lt; x &amp;&amp; x &lt; P(i+1).x) || (P(i).x &gt; x &amp;&amp; x &gt; P(i+1).x))
        {
            t = (x - P(i+1).x) / (P(i).x - P(i+1).x)
            cy = t*P(i).y + (1-t)*P(i+1).y
            if (y == cy) return (on boundary)
            else if (y &gt; cy) crossings++;
        }
        if ((P(i).x == x &amp;&amp; P(i).y &lt;= y) {
            if (P(i).y == y) return (on boundary);
            if (P(i+1).x == x)
            {
                if ((P(i).y &lt;= y &amp;&amp; y &lt;= P(i+1).y) || (P(i).y &gt;= y &amp;&amp; y &gt;= P(i+1).y))
                    return (on boundary);
            } else if (P(i+1).x &gt; x) crossings++;
            if (P(i-1).x &gt; x) crossings++;
        }
    }
    if (crossings is odd)
        return (inside);
    else return (outside);
 

This is almost completely expanded to compilable code, and it's not
too long, but not easy to read. To understand the ideas behind the
algorithm, I'd stick with the pseudo-code I started with in the
previous section. 

 Points in convex polygons 

A  convex polygon  is just one without any indentations. It
can also be defined formally as having the property that any two
points inside the polygon can be connected by a line segment that
doesn't cross the polygons. 

 Convex polygons are typically much easier to deal with than
non-convex ones. As an example, let's see how to simplify the
point-in-polygon test. 

 Let P(i) be the leftmost point of the polygon, and P(j) be the
rightmost point. These two points divide the polygon into two
parts, the  upper chain  and the  lower chain . Any line
or ray crosses the polygon at most twice, and any vertical line or
ray crosses each chain at most once. 

 So a lot of the work of the previous point-in-polygon algorithm
is wasted -- we go through each segment checking whether it gives a
crossing, but the answer will be yes in at most two cases. 

 How can we find these two cases more quickly? Binary search.
Just search for x in the first coordinates of points in the two
chains. If it is in the chain, you have found a crossing through a
vertex (and you don't have to be as careful to tell what kind of
crossing, either). If x is not the coordinate of a vertex in the
chain, the two nearest values to it tell you which segment the ray
from (x,y) might cross. So we can test whether a point is in a
convex polygon in time O(log n). 

 It turns out that there are data structures that can test
whether a point is in an arbitrary polygon (or which of several
polygons it's in) in the same O(log n) time bound. But they're more
complicated, so I don't have time to describe them here; I'll talk
about them at some point in ICS 164. 

 Convex hulls 

Since convex polygons are so much nicer to deal with than other
kinds of polygons, how can we make an input convex? The smallest
convex polygon containing a collection of points is known as the
 convex hull ; this can also be defined as the intersection of
the (infinitely many)  halfspaces  (portions of the plane on
one side of a line) that contain all the points. 

 I'll describe an algorithm for finding convex hulls known as the
  Graham  scan . The idea is a
common one in computational geometry, known as an  incremental
algorithm : add items one at a time to some structure,
maintaining as you do a partial solution for the items added so
far. The order in which items are added is often important; the
Graham scan adds points in sorted order from left to right (by the
values of their first coordinates). So O(n log n) time is needed
for an initial sorting stage, or less time if you want to assume
e.g. that the points' coordinates are small integers. 

 The algorithm is easier to describe in terms of the upper and
lower chains defined earlier. I'll describe how to compute the
upper chain; the lower chain is completely symmetric. Because of
the order in which we add points, the first point is always the
left end of the upper chain, and the last point is always the right
end. The only question is, what happens in the middle? 

 The figure below shows what happens when we add one new point to
the upper chain. We know it should be at the right end, so let's
try adding it after the previous rightmost point. However, this
might make an indentation at that previous point; if so we remove
the indentation from the chain, making it have one less edge. We
keep removing indentations one by one until there are none left, at
which point we have the new chain. 

   

  This is easiest to implement if we maintain the chain using a
stack data structure. Each new point in the chain corresponds to a
push in the stack, and removing an indentation corresponds to a
pop. Here is some pseudocode: 

 
    stack S = empty
    for each point (x,y) in sorted order by x
    {
    if (x,y) and top two points on S are indented
        pop S
    push (x,y) onto S
    }
 

The only question is how we test whether three points (x0,y0),
(x1,y1), and (x2,y2) form an indentation. Since we know in this
case the ordering of the x-coordinates of the three points, all we
need to do is test whether the middle point is above or below the
line segment formed by the other two. This is basically the same as
the math I went through to detect crossings for the
point-in-polygon test. 

 The algorithm goes through O(n) iterations of the outer loop.
There is also an inner nested loop, but each iteration of the inner
loop removes a point from the stack, and each point can only be
removed once, so this happens O(n) times total. Therefore the total
time for the convex hull algorithm, after the initial sorting
stage, is O(n). The overall algorithm takes time O(n log n) because
of the sorting step. 

 A similar process of shortcutting indentations also works for
finding convex hulls of simple polygons. Of course you could just
sort the vertices of the polygon and apply Graham scan, but you can
instead do the shortcutting process on the polygon itself. It is
possible for a shortcut to add a crossing between two edges, but
these will always become untangled by later stages of the angles.
In this way, one can find convex hulls of simple polygons in linear
time, without taking the time for a sorting stage. 

   ICS 161  --  Dept.
Information &amp; Computer Science  --  UC Irvine   Last update: 
  
</body> 