 SLI | Classes / CS273a: Introduction to Machine Learning <body>

       
   
  
     
     (?) 
   

     
           Classes 
   Group 
   Research 
   Publications 
   Code 
       
 

       

            login 
   

         
            Classes  / 
           CS273a: Introduction to Machine Learning  

 
 
   Assignments and Exams:</strong> 
 
    HW1    Code   01/13/15   Soln         HW2    Code   01/20/15   Soln         HW3    Code   01/27/15   Soln        Midterm  In-class  2/10/15           HW4    Code   02/24/15   Soln         HW5    Code   03/10/15   Soln         Project      3/20/15       Final  Tue 4:00-6:00pm  3/17/15          
 Lecture: Tues/Thurs 3:30pm-5:00pm, ICS 174 
 Instructor:  Prof. Alex Ihler  (ihler@ics.uci.edu), Office Bren Hall 4066 
  Office Hours: Mon 10:30-12:00pm, Bren Hall 4066, or by appointment
    Course Notes  in development 
 Also, a possibly helpful  LaTeX template  I use for homeworks and solutions.
(Or,  this link  has another nice way to include Matlab code in LaTeX.)
   Introduction to machine learning and data mining 
 How can a machine learn from experience, to become better at a given task?  How can we automatically extract knowledge or make sense of massive quantities of data?  These are the fundamental questions of machine learning.  Machine learning and data mining algorithms use techniques from statistics, optimization, and computer science to create automated systems which can sift through large volumes of data at high speed to make predictions or decisions without human intervention.
 
 Machine learning as a field is now incredibly pervasive, with applications from the web (search, advertisements, and suggestions) to national security, from analyzing biochemical interactions to traffic and emissions to astrophysics.  Perhaps most famously, the $1M Netflix prize stirred up interest in learning algorithms in professionals, students, and hobbyists alike.
 
 This class will familiarize you with a broad cross-section of models and algorithms for machine learning, and prepare you for research or industry application of machine learning techniques. 
 
   Background 
 We will assume basic familiarity with the concepts of probability and linear algebra.  Some programming will be required; we will primarily use Matlab, but no prior experience with Matlab will be assumed.  (Most or all code should be Octave compatible, so you may use Octave if you prefer.)
 
   Textbook and Reading 
 There is no required textbook for the class.  However, useful books on the subject for supplementary reading include
Murphy's "Machine Learning: A Probabilistic Perspective", Duda, Hart &amp; Stork, "Pattern Classification", and Hastie, Tibshirani, and Friedman, "The Elements of Statistical Learning".
 
   Piazza 
 I use Piazza to manage student discussions and questions.  Our class link is:
 http://piazza.com/uci/winter2015/cs273a .
 
   Matlab 
 Often we will write code for the course using the  Matlab  environment.  Matlab is accessible through NACS computers at several campus locations (e.g., 
 MSTB-A , 
 MSTB-B ,
and the  ICS lab ), and student licenses are fairly inexpensive ($100) and even free for UCI students on personal machines;  see here for instructions .  If you use Octave, please be careful to use Matlab-compatible syntax (not Octave extensions), since otherwise I or the grader may be unable to interpret your code.
For Octave, I suggest the SourceForge Octave binaries, e.g.,  Windows  and  Mac .
 
 If you are not familiar with Matlab, there are a number of tutorials on the web:
    Union College / Cyclismo.Org tutorial , more complete
   TutorialsPoint 
   A basic PDF guide  by David Houcque
   A far more detailed PDF guide  by Ed Overman
   You may want to start with one of the very short tutorials, then use the longer ones as a reference during the rest of the term.
 
 We will also use Matlab classes, including several classes that I've written for the course, 
to test and evaluate various classifiers.  Here are some  Notes on Matlab Object-Oriented Programming , using our k-nearest neighbor class as a working example.
 
      Syllabus (subject to change) 
   Slides  Videos  Topics     PDF    1  ,  2  ,  3  ,  4   Introduction     PDF    1  ,  2   Nearest neighbor methods     PDF    1  ,  2   Bayes classifiers, naive Bayes     PDF    1  ,  2  ,  3  ,  4  ,  5  ,  6   Linear regression     PDF    1  ,  2   Linear classifiers; perceptrons &amp; logistic regression     PDF    1   VC dimension, shattering, and complexity     PDF    1  ,  2   Neural networks (multi-layer perceptrons) and deep belief nets     PDF    1  ,  2  ,  3   Support vector machines; kernel methods     PDF    1  ,  2   Decision trees for classification &amp; regression     PDF    1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  4   Ensembles; bagging, gradient boosting, adaboost     PDF    1  ,  2  ,  3  ,  4   Unsupervised learning: clustering methods     PDF    1 ,  2   Dimensionality reduction: (Multivariate Gaussians); PCA/SVD, latent space representations     PDF      Recommender Systems and Collaborative Filtering     PDF      Time series, Markov models     PDF      Markov Decision Processes (slides from Andrew Moore)       Course Project 
  See Project Description pdf on the upper-right of this page (with homework &amp; exams)
       
 

       
       
      Last modified March 11, 2015, at 11:50 AM 
     
     Bren School of Information and Computer Science   University of California, Irvine 
     
   
</body> 