 Chimera 2.0 - Software<body>

   
                Chimera 2.0 Software 
           
           
                 
        
           
                Home    Overview    Documentation    
           
           
                 Released Software  

   
                 Source Code  
                These archives contain all of the Java source code for the Chimera servers (and their APIs) as well as the C source code for the C API. 
           
        
                Chimera Source Code  (.tgz)
           
           
                142k 
           
        
                Chimera Source Code  (.zip)
           
           
                436k 
           
        
                 Classes  
                This jar file contains all of the Java .class files for the Chimera release. The classes are stored uncompressed in the jar file to be compatible with the widest range of Java Virtual Machines. 
           
        
                Chimera Class Files  (.jar)
           
           
                792k 
           
        
                 Server HTML Documentation  
                Each Chimera server provides a documentation pane in its user interface. These archives contain the HTML documentation for the Chimera servers. Using the new preferences file mechanism, a user can now specify the location of this documentation. The official location is &lt; http://www.ics.uci.edu/pub/chimera/docs/ &gt;. However, these archives allow a user to access the documentation much more quickly on their local server. 
           
        
                Server Docs in HTML  (.tgz)
           
           
                277k 
           
        
                Server Docs in HTML  (.zip)
           
           
                390k 
           
        
                 Clients  
                Chimera 2.0 has a variety of clients available. The Java image viewer is a cross-platform client that provides hypermedia services over JPEG and GIF images. The XEmacs integration consists of a small set of elisp macros that allows XEmacs to provide access to Chimera's hypermedia services (Note: the XEmacs integration depends upon the command line interface to Chimera known as the Chimera shell). The remaining two Unix clients are integrations of the Solaris versions of FrameMaker and Netscape.
The new COM Client provides the facility to use Chimera from Windows NT through the use of Microsoft's COM specification. The FrameMaker plug-in is the first available client running on Windows NT and utilizing the COM Client.
 
           
        
                Java Image Viewer  (.tgz)
           
           
                150k 
           
        
                XEmacs Integration  (.txt)
           
           
                25k 
           
        
                Chimera Shell  (.tgz)
           
           
                17k 
           
        
                FrameMaker 5 plug-in (Solaris)  (.tgz)
           
           
                215k 
           
        
                Netscape wrapper (Solaris)  (.tgz)
           
           
                13k 
           
        
                COM Client binary (Windows NT)  (.zip)
           
           
                48k 
           
        
                COM Client source (Windows NT)  (.zip)
           
           
                182k 
           
        
                FrameMaker5 plug-in binary (Windows NT)  (.zip)
           
           
                69k 
           
        
                FrameMaker 5 plug-in source (Windows NT)  (.zip)
           
           
                230k 
           
        
                 New C_API for chimsh  
                 The current chimsh uses a not yet released libChimera.a.
This can be made by replacing this c_api for the c_api in the current
Chimera beta, then running the Makefile.  Note: this is the c_api for the
beta 6 Chimera release.
			    
           
        
                C_API 
           
           
                251k 
           
        
                 PrefMaker helper program  
                 The PrefMaker alpha 1 is a utility program designed to 
allow a user to quickly create the chimerapreferences XML file which is used
by the various Chimera servers on start-up.  This program will aid in 
visualizing and entering the various fields required by the two existant
chimera preferences dtd's (for beta 4 and for beta 7 and later).  

			    
           
        
                PrefMaker 
           
           
                20k 
           
        
            </body> 