 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  September 22,  2003
</strong>
 
     New University 
      
         Call of the Wild Echoes Through the Beall Center</strong>
           By Vernon Ng</strong>
                  These nights, in the dark, warehouse-like Beall Center for Art and Technology, it is not unusual to find a pack of students and professors howling and barking together in formation. 
  
The reason for these strange and somewhat unusual happenings is the result of the Beall Center’s new exhibition entitled “Through the Eye of the Wolf”, featuring the works of Bill Tomlinson and Sam Easterson. The exhibition held its opening receptionat the Beall Center on Sept. 26. 
  
Filled with an older audience comprised of many professors, the Beall event had a quiet, elegant tone. Faculty and graduate art students strolled through the exhibit, discussing the individual pieces. 
  
The exhibition runs until Oct. 26 and is open from Tuesday through Sunday from noon to 5 p.m. and Friday from noon to 8 p.m. 
  
The exhibit is comprised of two screen-projected triptychs. The pieces situate the viewer in thewolf’s point-of-view and aim to educate the participant on the social and behavioral patterns of wolves. 
  
Easterson’s installation, entitled “Animal, Vegetable, Video: Pack of Wolves,” immerses the viewer in the daily lives of three wolves. Easterson and his team achieved the video’s unusual perspective by outfitting the wolves with miniature helmet-mounted cameras. This provided for photos that were right in the action that was taking place. They often required more than once glance to understand. The viewer-as-wolf wanders the eerie woodlands of Florissant, Colorado, digging holes and apparently searching for food and companionship. 
  
“This has been one of my most challenging projects,” said Easterson, who considers the piece a component of a larger project of videos taken in the perspective of animals and plants. 
  
Easterson has previously recorded the perspective of armadillos, spiders and tumbleweeds and is thus well-rounded in the field of photographing live moving objects. 
  
Easterson’s installation was commissioned last year by the Los Angeles Natural History Museum as part of a large exhibit on dogs. 
  
Tomlinson, who has recently joined UCI’s arts, computation and engineering graduate program, submitted his piece as his doctoral dissertation at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
  
Beyond visually placing the viewer in the life of a wolf, Tomlinson’s work entitled “Alphawolf” requires the actual, physical interaction of the viewer with computer-generated wolves. 
  
Three participants become members of a virtual wolf pack and interact with each other as well as with other autonomous wolves by howling, growling, whimpering and barking into microphones. 
  
Each sound signifies a particular mood or emotion. For example, barking indicates playfulness, and growling indicates anger. The wolf being addressed reacts accordingly to each vocalization. This unique presentation proved effective in helping the audience better understand the complexities of the animal. 
  
“Having a multi-user simulation was important to us so that the user not only interacts with the virtual creatures, but with his peers using the program as well,” Tomlinson said. 
  
According to Tomlinson, each five-minute run is intended to simulate the formation and maintenance of the wolf pack's social structure. The computer-rendered wolves are programmed to behave in a manner that reflects their previous social interactions. 
  
Third-year English and studio art major Lumen Hwang was fascinated by the creativity of the interactive displays that made the evening’s activities different from other art exhibits. 
  
“I think it’s great how you can pick up the [microphone] and interact with the art,” Hwang said,“[Both installations] make me ask questions.” 
  
Visit the Beall Center to experience a different kind of art. It’s another one of the unique treasures that UCI has to offer.
                      Call of the Wild Echoes Through the Beall Center    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Future's here
              
                Next &gt; 
                 Future's here
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 