 November 2009 – Center for Computer Games &amp; Virtual Worlds 
 
	 
		 Skip to content 

		 
				 
					
											  Center for Computer Games &amp; Virtual Worlds  
											 Bren School of ICS | UC Irvine 
									 

							 

					 

	 
		 Month: November 2009 			  Navarro, Van der Hoek win Premier Award for SimSE  	 
		    Project scientist  Emily Navarro</strong> and Associate Dean  André van der Hoek</strong> have been recognized with the 2009 Premier Award for SimSE, a game-based educational software engineering simulation environment that allows students to practice “virtual” software engineering processes in a graphical, interactive and fun setting. 
 SimSE’s direct, graphical feedback enables students to learn the complex cause and effect relationships underlying software engineering processes. During the game, the student takes on the role of the project manager and directs engineers to perform typical process tasks. 
 SimSE helps bridge the gap between the conceptual knowledge about software engineering that is presented in lecture but that      often times is not fully explored or practiced in assignments or projects. 
   Continue reading  “Navarro, Van der Hoek win Premier Award for SimSE”   
	 

	    Author    admin     Posted on   November 30, 2009November 30, 2009    Categories   In the News    Tags   emily navarro ,  premier award ,  simse ,  van der hoek  			  From the New York Times  	 
		  New York Times, November 30, 2009  
 UCI mentioned: 
This fall, the University of California, Irvine is set to begin a four 
year undergraduate program in “game science.” 
	 

	    Author    admin     Posted on   November 30, 2009November 30, 2009    Categories   In the News    Tags   latimes ,  New York Times ,  nyt  			  The California Report  	 
		 Public Radio’s The California Report on Computer Game Science.  Click here for MP3.  
	 

	    Author    admin     Posted on   November 30, 2009November 30, 2009    Categories   In the News  			  LA Times: UC Irvine takes video games to the next level  	 
		   
   By Tony Barboza,     November 30, 2009   
 UC Irvine has long sought to be known for preeminence in fields such as engineering, medicine and business. But now the university is embracing a new discipline: video games. 
 Once ridiculed within university halls as merely a nerdy pastime, computer games are being promoted to a full-fledged academic program at the Irvine campus, a medium as ripe for study as the formats before it: film, radio and television. 
 This fall UC Irvine established the  Center for Computer Games &amp; Virtual Worlds , and construction is underway on a 4,000-square-foot, 20-room “Cyber-Interaction Observatory” for faculty research. Plans call for floor-to-ceiling projection screens, 3-D stereoscopic displays and gesture-based interfaces. 
 If all goes according to plan, next fall UC Irvine will debut a four-year undergraduate program allowing students to declare “game science” as their major — an idea that drew snickers when a few professors first proposed it a decade ago. 
 “There are people who will say we’re pandering to a trend,” said Dan Frost, an informatics lecturer who teaches a popular computer game development course. “But this really is intellectually justified. Universities are always doing things that seem crazy at first.” 
 It’s a fitting development for a campus where some students are so gaga for gaming that they spend sleepless nights writing code for their homespun games and like to unwind with pizza-fueled Street Fighter tournaments and Rock Band contests.  Continue reading  “LA Times: UC Irvine takes video games to the next level”   
	 

	    Author    admin     Posted on   November 30, 2009November 30, 2009    Categories   In the News    Tags   LA Times ,  latimes  			  Lopes speaks at Intel CTO  keynote address  	 
		    Cristina Lopes, Associate Professor of Informatics participated as a guest speaker in the keynote address at SuperComputing ’09 in Portland Oregon.  The Keynote was delivered by Justin Rattner, CTO of Intel.  Lopes was a guest at Rattner’s keynote, in her role as one of the main architects of OpenSim. 
 Justin Rattner’s opening keynote address at SuperComputing’09 message addressed how the super-computing industry has stagnated, and the only thing that will save it from collapse is a drastic change on what people think of as “super-computing.” Other guests were Aaron Duffy, a biology researcher at Utah State University, and Shenlei Winkler, CEO of the Fashion Design Institute. 
 Lopes’ research is related to languages and communication systems. The ultimate goal of her research is to deepen the knowledge about communication, in particular in systems that involve humans and machines. With this utopic goal in mind, she has done work in a variety of fields such as programming languages, security and applications of audio signal processing. 
	 

	    Author    admin     Posted on   November 23, 2009November 23, 2009    Categories   In the News  			 


	 Blogroll 
	   ArtIsAllWeHave  
  Itofisher  
  Metaverse Ink Blog  
  Pomo2k  
  UCI VGDC  
  Virtual Politik  

	  Archives 		   November 2012  
	  October 2012  
	  September 2012  
	  May 2012  
	  April 2011  
	  February 2011  
	  January 2011  
	  August 2010  
	  April 2010  
	  November 2009  
	  September 2009  
	  July 2009  
		  

		 
								  Center for Computer Games &amp; Virtual Worlds  
				 Proudly powered by WordPress 
			 
		 
 

</body> 