 endowed bren chairs @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Employment  


     
 Endowed Bren Chairs 

 
 

 
The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer
Sciences was endowed with a transformational gift that included ten “Bren Chairs”
to be filled with scholars who are internationally-recognized as leaders in
emerging issues of any area of information and computer sciences, including
cross-disciplinary research integrating information and computer sciences with
other disciplines. The Bren Professors are some of the most distinguished
appointments at UC Irvine.  
 
Candidates should bring an integrative outlook to the discipline, enthusiasm in engaging
with professional and business communities and the general public,
collaborating with UCI scholars who study issues of information and computing
technology, and support for the development of innovative technologies and
applications. We envision Bren chair-holders to serve as catalysts on campus to
establish educational and research programs that foster an interdisciplinary
perspective. Accordingly, candidates should not only
have a strong disciplinary background with a distinguished record of scholarly
publications and extramural funding, but also a proven track record of
innovation, collaboration, stimulation and leadership in both education and
research. 
 
Appointments will be in the Department of Computer
Science, Informatics, or Statistics at the rank of senior, distinguished
professor. Scholars doing truly cross-disciplinary research may be jointly appointed
with another school at UC Irvine. Four chairs are currently filled.  
 
The Bren School of ICS has excellent faculty,
innovative programs, high quality students and outstanding graduates as well as
strong relationships with local and national high tech industry.  
 
As one of eleven academic units at UC Irvine. an
independent school with three departments – Computer Science, Informatics, and
Statistics – the Bren School has a unique perspective that provides a broad
foundation from which to build initiatives that explore the full extent of the computing
and information disciplines.  
 
With 68 regular-rank faculty members, seven
full-time lecturers, approximately 250 doctoral, 150 masters, and 1000
undergraduate students, ICS is one of the largest computing programs in the
country. Many faculty in the school engage in interdisciplinary research
through various organizations such as the California Institute for
Telecommunications and Information Technology (Calit2), the Institute for
Genomics and Bioinformatics (IGB), Institute for Software Research (ISR), to
name but a few.  
 
Outstanding candidates in all relevant areas and at
other ranks are encouraged to contact the Dean 
( icsdean@ics.uci.edu ) 
 
 UC Irvine 
( http://www.uci.edu )  is one of the
youngest UC campuses, yet consistently
ranks among the nation’s best public universities. UCI is located three miles
from the ocean in southern California with an excellent year-round
Mediterranean climate. The area surrounding campus offers numerous outdoor and
fine arts opportunities and the public school system in Irvine is ranked one of
the highest in the nation. 
   
  UCI is an equal
opportunity employer committed to excellence through diversity and strongly
encourages applications from all qualified candidates, including women and
minorities. UCI is responsive to the needs of dual career couples, is dedicated
to work-life balance through an array of family-friendly policies, and is the
recipient of a National Science Foundation ADVANCE award for gender equity.  


 
 
 
  More employment » 
   Endowed Bren Chairs  
  Faculty positions  
  Lecturer positions  
  Research positions  
  Student/alumni job board  
  Staff positions  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 