 BART Flyer<body> 
 
 
  University of California at Irvine
  Irvine Research Unit in Software 
(IRUS)  is proud to sponsor the 
 
 
 
   Bay Area 
Roundtable (BART)    
Scaling for the Internet series, meeting 10

  

Data Mining and Broadcasting News over the Internet



     


  * Friday, November 13, 1998 *  
 
 
9:00am-9:30am: Coffee/Network 
9:30am-12:00pm: BART Meeting 
Hyatt Rickeys Hotel - Palo Alto 
4219 El Camino Real  
Tel (650) 493-8000 
  
 
There is a $15.00 charge for non-sponsors.  
Checks should be made payable to  UC Regents</strong>.  

 
 No reservations required.  

  
   

  

 

   Application of Data Mining to Information Access 
on the Internet </strong>  

Umeshwar Dayal, Laboratory Scientist for Information Management Solutions, 
 Hewlett-Packard Laboratories , 
 dayal@hpl.hp.com  

  

Data mining has become an active area of research, attracting people from 
several disciplines: database systems, artificial intelligence, statistics, 
information retrieval, and data visualization. Data mining products and 
toolkits are now commercially available, and serious industrial applications 
are being developed. This talk will provide a brief overview of data mining, 
and then focus on applications of data mining to facilitating information 
access on the Internet. On-going research projects at HP Labs in the areas 
of collaborative filtering, electronic business, and customer support will 
be used to illustrate the concepts and techniques.

  

 Biography:</strong>
Umeshwar Dayal is Laboratory Scientist for Information Management Solutions 
at Hewlett-Packard Labs., where he currently is technical lead on research 
projects in data mining solutions. Prior to joining HP Labs, Umesh was a 
senior researcher at DEC's Cambridge Research Lab., Xerox Advanced 
Information Technology, and Computer Corporation of America, and on the 
faculty at the University of Texas-Austin. Umesh has published extensively 
in the areas of database systems, transaction management, and workflow 
systems. He is on the Editorial Board of four international journals, and 
has chaired and served on the Program Committees of numerous conferences. 
He is a member of the Board of the VLDB Endowment and the International 
Foundation for Cooperative Information Systems.

  

   The Pointcast Network: Broadcasting News on the 
Internet </strong>  

Satish Ramakrishnan, Director of Server Engineering, 
 Pointcast , 
 satish@pointcast.com 


  

PointCast Inc., the inventor and leader in broadcast news via the 
Internet and corporate intranets, delivers news as it happens from 
leading sources such as CNN and the New York Times directly to a viewer's 
computer screen. The PointCast Network is an integrated client/server 
system which gives users control of selecting kinds of information the 
client retrieves and the frequency of those retrievals. PointCast Client 
runs on the user's computer and retrieves information from the Central 
Broadcasting Facility which is composed of multiple sites geographically 
distributed over the US, each carrying a number of web servers called 
"PointServers". PointServers are highly customized and "infinitely" 
scalable to serve close to 200 million requests in a day. The PointCast 
Network receives content from about 600 different sources via satellite 
links or the internet. A cluster of servers runs customized processes 
round the clock to assimilate data from various sources.

This presentation will describe the basic plumbing of the PointCast 
Network including:

   fault tolerance 
  load balancing 	
  achieving scalability through pre-caching on servers
  packaging information to optimize internet bandwidth usage
  minimizing data latency
   

 Biography:</strong>
Satish Ramakrishnan is Senior Director of Software Development 
and Director of Server Engineering for Pointcast, Inc.

  

 Coordinator:</strong> Patricia Cornwell, 
 Hewlett-Packard Company , 
 patricia_cornwell@hp.com 

  

 
Directions  to the meeting are available.

  

The Irvine Research Unit in Software wishes to thank its 
 
corporate sponsors :

  

Sustaining:
  
The Boeing Company * Boeing North American, Inc. * Microsoft Corporation 
Northrop Grumman Corporation * 
Raytheon Company * Sun Microsystems Laboratories * TRW
 
 
Supporting:
  
    Beckman Coulter * FileNet Corporation * Printronix, Inc. 
    Continuus Software Corporation * Hewlett Packard
  
 
 
For further information on 
 BART  or 
 IRUS,  contact  
&amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp 
 Debra Brodbeck  
at (949) 824-2260; 
 brodbeck@ics.uci.edu 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science  
University of California, Irvine  CA 92697-3425   
</body> 