 Arthur Asuncion's Official Site: Research Interests<body>
     Arthur Asuncion  
	     --   --   --   --   --   --   --   
	   Research Interests </strong> 
       
     

     My area is artificial intelligence and machine learning.  
I'm part of the  DataLab group  
with Prof. Smyth.  I'm currently working on developing efficient and
scalable statistical inference techniques for tasks such as topic
modeling, collaborative filtering, and social network analysis.
Computational efficiency is of increasing interest due to the increasing
complexity of models (which may be nonparametric and hierarchical) and the
sheer amount of data available to us.


  Specifically, I'm interested in using parallel/distributed computing to speed up
machine learning algorithms and allow them to handle massive data sets.
I'm also interested in accelerating the approximate inference techniques 
themselves, by using improved MCMC samplers, faster variational 
techniques, particle filtering, improved contrastive divergence techniques, 
and other tricks. By combining these techniques with parallel computing, 
one can potentially achieve compounded speedups.  For instance, one can learn 
a topic model on a corpus with thousands of documents in a single second by 
running a fast variational algorithm ( CVB0 ) on an 
8-core machine. 




  Other topics that interest me are computer music and signal processing.  
As an undergrad, I once made a  wavelet-based signal processor  
that produced some interesting sounds.

  Another area that I would like to pursue in my spare time is what I have termed "software biomimetics". Biomimetics is  a discipline which attempts to mimic useful designs found in nature and apply these designs to technology. Visit Georgia Tech's  Center for Biologically Inspired Design  for some examples of biomimetics. What I would like to do is extend this biological mimicry to the software realm. Is it possible to extract software design principles from the software of life? 

    

	 

     Copyright
 ©  Arthur Asuncion 2007. This is a personal website which is not endorsed by the University. By using this site, you signify that Arthur Asuncion is not liable for anything. Last Modified 4/2/07.  
    </body> 