 Theory Seminar, July 2, 2013<body>
   
  Summer 2014: Theory Seminar  
Donald Bren Hall, Room 4011, 1pm

 
July 2, 2014: 
 
Shuffling Data into Cloud Oblivion
 
 
Roberto Tamassia, Brown University
 

 
 Abstract: 
A shuffle is an algorithm for rearranging an array to achieve a random
permutation of its elements. Early shuffle methods were motivated by the
problem of shuffling a deck of cards. An oblivious shuffle is a distributed
shuffle executed by a client who permutes an array of encrypted data items
stored at a server in such a way that the server cannot determine the output
permutation with probability better than a random guess. Several private cloud
storage solutions that obfuscate the access pattern to the data use an
oblivious shuffle as a fundamental building block. We present the Melbourne
Shuffle, a simple and efficient oblivious shuffle that allows a client with
O(√n) memory to obliviously shuffle  an array of size n stored at a server by
exchanging O(√n) messages of size O(√n). The Melbourne Shuffle is the first
provably secure oblivious shuffle that is not based on sorting.

  
This talk is based on the paper “The Melbourne Shuffle: Improving Oblivious
Storage in the Cloud” by Olga Ohrimenko, Michael Goodrich, Roberto Tamassia
and Eli Upfal, International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming
(ICALP), 2014 (to appear). 

  
 Biography : Roberto Tamassia is the Plastech Professor of Computer Science and
the Chair of the Department of Computer Science at Brown University. He is
also the Director of Brown's Center for Geometric Computing. His research
interests include data security and privacy, applied cryptography, analysis,
design, and implementation of algorithms, graph drawing and computational
geometry. He is an AAAS Fellow, ACM Fellow, and IEEE Fellow, and the recipient
of a Technical Achievement Award from the IEEE Computer Society for pioneering
the field of graph drawing. Thomson Reuters Highly Cited Research lists him
among the most cited computer science authors. He co-founded the Journal of
Graph Algorithms and Applications and the Symposium on Graph Drawing. He
received a Ph.D. Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
 </body> 