 CompSci 143A - Principles of Operating Systems<body>        
         CompSci 143A Principles of Operating Systems 
       
       
          .  
       
       
          Course Description      
       
       
         Principles and concepts operating systems, including processes, threads, scheduling, synchronization, memory management, file systems, and I/O systems are covered. 
           
       
       
          Class Webpage  
       
       
          Class webpage address is   http://www.ics.uci.edu/~ics143    
       
       
         Please check the class web at least once a day. It is your responsibility to do so. 
           
       
       
          Time &amp; Place      
       
       
          Lectures : Tuesdays/Thursdays 11:00am-12:20pm, PSLH 100 
       
       
          Discussion Sections : Fridays 9:00am-9:50am, 10:00am-10:50am, 2:00pm-2:50pm  ,  ICS 174   
       
       
          Midterm : Thursday, May 5, in class 
       
       
          Final :   Tuesday, June 7, 10:30-12:30pm, PSLH 100 
           
       
       
          Prerequisites  
       
       
         See  here .    

           
       
       
          Drop Policy  
       
       
         As per Student Affairs 
           
       
       
          Announcements in Class   
       
       
         Usually, if there is an announcement, it will be made at the beginning of a class. 
         It is your responsibility to come to class on time and not to miss any announcement. 
           
       
       
          Lecture Notes  
       
       
         The corresponding set of slides will be available on the web at the beginning of the week.    
         You are expected to skim the readings before the lectures and to read the materials more thoroughly after the lectures covering them. 
         The slides that are presented in the class are subject to change until the class time. 
           
       
       
          Grading (subject to change)  
       
       
         1 midterm, 1 final exam, four written and one programming homework assignments.    Pop-quizzes will be given in the discussion sessions and they will help decide the grade if someone is on the borderline of grades. 
           
       
       
         Midterm: 30 points 
       
       
         Homeworks: 30 points 
       
       
         Final: 40 points 
       
       
           
         No incompletes will be given. 
           
       
       
          Exams  
       
       
         If it is not covered in class, it will not be tested on exams. 
       
       
         If there is an exception, it will be announced in class. 
       
       
         In exams, use pen, not pencil, if you want to claim grading errors. 
           
       
       
          Policy on Missed Exams  
       
       
         For the midterm and final, you must have a pressing reason (such as a conflicting exam) to miss a scheduled mid-term or final exam.    
           
         Make up exams may be taken, if you have notified the professor at least two weeks prior to the original exam that you will not be able to attend.    
           
         If you miss an exam due to unforeseen emergency, you may take a make-up exam only after providing written documentation of an excuse that is acceptable to the professor. 
           
       
       
          Reference Material  
       
       
         Textbook: Operating System Concepts, A. Silberschatz, P.B. Galvin and G. Gagne, Ninth Edition (any edition of this book beyond the Fifth edition will suffice). 
         Other recommended book: Operating Systems: Principles and Practice, T. Anderson and M. Dahlin, Second edition. 
         Other recommended book: Modern Operating Systems, A.S. Tanenbaum, third edition. 
         Other recommended book: Principles of Operating Systems, L.F. Bic and A.C. Shaw, 2003. 
         There might also be some readings (technical papers). The instructors will announce in class when and where the readings will be available. 
           
       
       
          Help Line  
       
       
         General questions or questions about assignments, which might be of interest to many should first be posted to the  course newsgroup . There you will get the best/quickest response for questions and other matters which can be handled by the instructors, the teaching assistants or your peers. 
         We (instructors and TAs) are here to HELP you. Come to see us, and ask us questions! 
           
       
        </body> 