 
 


 
   
     
     
     
     
     
    <title>Kristin Roher 
     
       
       
     
     
     
   
   
     
       
         
             
             
         
         
             
           
             
               
                 Kristin Roher 
               
             
           
         
         
             
             
           
             
               
                 About Me  
                   
                 
                   
                         I received my B.S. in Computer Engineering from the University of Pittsburgh. I recently received my Master in Information and Computer Science from the University of California, Irvine. My master’s thesis aimed to leverage existing theories and techniques on social influence to design ICT systems that increase behaviors that contribute to sustainability.   
                   
                   
                           
                   
                   
                         I spend my spare time swimming, traveling, and finding good food places. I am also an amateur photographer. I particularly enjoy photographing landscapes and try to incorporate this into my time traveling as much as possible. Instragram: krohphotos  
                   
                   
                           
                   
                 
                 Teaching  
                   
                 
                   
                         Over the past three summers I worked on a project with Girls Inc of Orange County to provide week-long summer camps to girls aged 13-18. The camps not only provided low-income girls with an opportunity to learn to program robots to dance, it also aimed to empower girls with a desire to learn more about STEM majors and careers. On the first day of the camp we asked how many were interested in computer science and only about 2 out of 20 girls raised their hands each week, however, by the end of the week we had more than 3/4 of the girls raising their hands when asked the same question. The camps taught the girls how fun computer science can be and about the many opportunities provided by knowing computer science skills. My role at the camp was to provide instruction, develop the curriculum, provide technical support for the robots and associated software, and assist in mentorship of the girls. By the end of the week the girls were able to code the robot to dance, tell jokes, hold conversations, and respond to commands.   
                   
                   
                           
                   
                   
                         Check out the videos made about the camp:  
                   
                   
                         1.   Girls Inc. Summer Robotics Camp at UCI     
                   
                   
                         2.   How Kevin and GiGi Became Friends   --The script for this one was written by one of the girls who attended the camp  
                   
                 
               
             
           
          


           
             
               
             
           
          


           
             
               
                 Email:   
                 kroher at uci dot edu  
                   
                 Office:   
                 Department of Informatics  
                 Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Science  
                 University of California, Irvine  
                 5243 Donald Bren  
                 Irvine, CA 92697-3440  
                   
                  CV:   PDF   
                  USER 2013 Paper:   PDF   
                  RePa 2013 Paper:   PDF  
               
             
           
          


           
             
               
             
           
          


           
             
               
             
           
          


           
             
               
             
           
             
         
         
             
         
       
     
  </body>
 


