 Euler's Formula<body>
     
  Euler's Formula
References
    M. Beck and S. Robins ,
 "Computing the Continuous Discretely: Integer-Point Enumeration in Polyhedra" .
To appear in the Springer Undergraduate Texts in Mathematics series.
Theorem 5.2 uses the  integer point enumeration method 
to prove Euler's formula for rational polytopes in any dimension.
 

    Bishop and Goldberg ,
"Tensor Analysis on Manifolds", Dover 1980,
prove the formula p_1-p_2+p_3=2 where the values p_i denote
the numbers of local minima, saddles, and local maxima on a spherical surface.
I have adapted their proof, based on  rainfall and
flooding , to Euler's formula.
 

    J. A. Bondy and U. S. R. Murty , "Graph Theory with
Applications", Elsevier 1976.  Uses the  induction
on faces .
 

    L. Euler , "Elementa doctrinae solidorum.---Demonstratio
nonnullarum insignium proprietatum, quibus solida hedris
planis inclusa sunt praedita", Novi comment
acad. sc. imp. Petropol., 4, 1752-3, 109-140-160.
 

    J. Hadamard , "Elementary Geometry".
According to Alex Bogomolny, a 1958 Russian translation
contains the  divide and conquer  proof.
I haven't checked whether other editions do as well.
 

    Henle , "A Combinatorial Approach to Topology",
Freeman 1979.  This book was used in the undergraduate topology course I
once took, so it may have been the first place I saw a proof of Euler's
formula.  Now I'm not so sure about it.  It gives some history of the
Euler formula, which follows common folklore (erroneously, according to
 Malkevitch ) in attributing the formula to Descartes,
and muffs the proof -- Henle gives the  triangle
removal  proof without any mention of what is required of the removal
sequence or how to find such a sequence.   

    Hilton and Pederson , "The Euler Characteristic
and Pólya's Dream", Amer. Math. Monthly 103, 1996, 121-131.
This article provides some speculation on how Euler might have found
his formula, relating it to Pólya's theories of mathematical discovery.
It also gives a proof of equivalence of the Euler characteristic
and total angular defect closely related to the
 sum of angles  proof presented here.
 

    D. A. Klain and G.-C. Rota ,
"Introduction to Geometric Probability", Lezioni Lincee,
Cambridge Univ. Press, 1997.  Shows that
the Euler characteristic can be viewed (along with e.g. volume and surface area) as one of the fundamental translation-invariant functions on unions of convex sets.
The
 valuation-based proof  is from section 5.2;
the other key sections related to the Euler characteristic are 3.2 (showing that the characteristic is well defined for simplicial complexes) and 7.3 (generalizing Euler's formula to other intrinsic volumes).
 

    I. Lakatos , "Proofs and Refutations: The Logic of
Mathematical Discovery", Cambridge 1976.  Uses the
 triangle removal  proof of
Euler's formula as a key
example for an investigation of what mathematical proof means.
He also describes a proof based on  binary homology
theory .
 

    J. Lawrence ,
 A short
proof of Euler's relation for convex polytopes ,
Can. Math. Bull. 40(4):471-474, 1997.
The source of the  hyperplane arrangement proof .
 

    A. M. Legendre , "Élements de
géométrie", Paris, 1794.
Credited by  Sommerville  as source
of the proof by
 spherical sum of angles .
 

    S. A. J. Lhuilier , "Mémoir sur la
polyédrométrie, contenant une démonstration directe du
théorème d'Euler sur les polyèdres, et un
examen de diverses exceptions auxquelles ce théorème
est assujetti", Gergonne Ann. Math. 3, 1812, p. 169.
Credited by  Sommerville  as co-source
(with  Steiner ) of the proof by
 sum of angles .
 

    J. H. van Lint and R. M. Wilson , "A Course in
Combinatorics", Cambridge 1992.  Proves Euler's formula via
 induction on edges .
They also mention but do not prove a generalization to
higher dimensional polytopes in their section on Möbius inversion.
 

    J. Malkevitch , "The first proof of Euler's formula",
Mitteilungen aus dem Mathem. Seminar Giessen, Heft 165, Teil III
(Coxeter Festschrift), pp. 77-82.  Describes the early history of the
formula, including its discovery by Euler and proof by Legendre,
rebutting the folklore theory that the formula was instead discovered
by Descartes and proven by Hirsch.
 

    D. M. Y. Sommerville , "An Introduction to the Geometry of N Dimensions", Dover 1958.  Includes a chapter on Euler's formula including proofs by
 shelling ,
 sum of angles ,
 spherical sum of angles ,
and  interdigitating trees .
 

    J. Steiner , "Leichter Beweis eines
stereometrischen Satzes von Euler", Crelle J. 1, 1826, pp. 364-367.
Credited by  Sommerville  as co-source
(with  Lhuilier ) of the proof by
 sum of angles .
 

    W. P. Thurston , "The Geometry and Topology of
Three-Dimensional Manifolds".  These unpublished lecture notes
(distributed as samizdat within the topology community)
include a proof of Euler's formula based on
 electrical charge .
 

    G. K. C. Von Staudt , "Geometrie der Lage",
Nürnberg, 1847.
Credited by  Sommerville  as source
of the proof by
 interdigitating trees .
 

    H. Tverberg , "How to cut a convex polytope into
simplices", Geometriae Dedicata 3(2):239-240, 1974.
Proves that any polytope can be cut into simplices by a
 binary space partition  and uses this
as the basis for a proof of Euler's formula.
 

    J. Weeks , "The Shape of Space: How to Visualize
Surfaces and Three-Dimensional Manifolds", Dekker, 1985.
Proves the excess=area formula for spheres and uses it
in the  spherical sum of angles proof 
of the Euler formula.
 

    D. Wells , "The Penguin Dictionary of Curious and
Interesting Geometry", Penguin, 1991.  Includes a description of the
excess=area property of spherical trigonometry used in the  spherical sum of angles proof , as well as a quick
mention that  Pick's Theorem  is equivalent to
Euler's formula.  Curiously, there is no entry for Euler's formula
itself.
 

    G. Ziegler , "Lectures on Polytopes", Springer, 1995,
gives a  shelling  based proof of
Euler's formula that avoids case analysis and
extends without change to any higher dimensional convex
polytope.
 

   

In addition, the following look very interesting,
but I haven't found time to read them yet:
   Chen ,
"On the Euler characteristic of finite unions of convex sets",
Disc. Comput. Geom. 10, 1993, 79-93.
 
Abstract: The Euler characteristic plays an important role in many
subjects of discrete and continuous mathematics. For noncompact spaces,
its homological definition, being a homotopy invariant, seems not as
important as its role for compact spaces. However, its combinatorial
definition, as a finitely additive measure, proves to be more applicable
in the study of singular spaces such as semialgebraic sets finitely
subanalytic sets, etc.  The author introduces an interesting integral by
means of which the combinatorial Euler characteristic can be defined
without the necessity of decomposition and extension as in the
traditional treatment for polyhedra and finite unions of compact convex
sets. Since finite unions of closed convex sets cannot be obtained by
cutting convex sets as in the polyhedral case, a separate treatment of
the Euler characteristic for functions generated by indicator functions
of closed convex sets and relatively open convex sets is necessary, and
this forms the content of this paper.
  
    Levitt ,
"The Euler characteristic is the unique locally determined numerical
homotopy invariant of finite complexes",
Disc. Comput. Geom. 7, 1992, 59-67.
 
Abstract: The author shows that if a numerical homotopy invariant of finite
simplicial complexes has a local formula, then, up to multiplication by an
obvious constant, the invariant is the Euler characteristic. Moreover, the
Euler characteristic itself has a unique local formula.
  
    Rocek and Williams ,
"On the Euler characteristic of piecewise linear manifolds",
Phys. Lett. B, 273, 1991, 95-99.
 
Abstract: The Dehn-Sommerville relations and the corresponding equations for
the angle sums are used to derive two expressions for the Euler
characteristic of a simplicial manifold, firstly in terms of the numbers
of even dimensional subsimplices, and secondly in terms of
even-dimensional deficit angles. In each case the coefficients involved
are related to the Bernoulli numbers.
  
   Peter Hilton and Jean Pedersen.  "Euler's theorem for polyhedra:
a topologist and geometer respond". Comment to: "A new look at Euler's
theorem for polyhedra" [Amer. Math. Monthly 101 (1994), no. 2, 109-128;
MR 95c:52032] by B. Grunbaum and G. C. Shephard. With a response by
Grunbaum and Shephard. Amer. Math. Monthly 101 (1994), no. 10, 959-962.
 
   Krzysztof Przeslawski.  "Linear algebra of convex sets and 
the Euler characteristic".  Linear and Multilinear Algebra 31 (1992), 
no. 1-4, 153-191.
 
   G. Thomas Sallee.  "Euler's relation and where it led".
Convexity and related combinatorial geometry (Norman, Okla., 1980), 
pp. 45--55, Lecture Notes in Pure and Appl. Math., 76, Dekker, New York,
1982.
 
       
 Proofs of Euler's Formula . 
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file.
Last update: .  </body> 