 The Geometry Junkyard: Hyperbolic Tiling<body>

 
   
 
  
  
Tilings of Hyperbolic Spaces
 
   Dehn
invariants of hyperbolic tiles .  The Dehn invariant is one way
of testing whether a Euclidean polyhedron can be used to tile space.
But as Doug Zare describes, there are hyperbolic tiles
with nonzero Dehn invariant.
 
    Do buckyballs fill hyperbolic space? 
 
    Gallery of interactive on-line geometry .
The Geometry Center's collection includes programs for generating
Penrose tilings, making periodic drawings a la Escher in the Euclidean
and hyperbolic planes, playing pinball in negatively curved spaces,
viewing 3d objects, exploring the space of angle geometries, and
visualizing Riemann surfaces.
 
    Gaussian
continued fractions .
Stephen Fortescue discusses some connections between basic
number-theoretic algorithms and the geometry of tilings
of 2d and 3d hyperbolic spaces.
 
    D. Huson's favorite hyperbolic tiling .
 
    Hyperbolic geometry .  Visualizations and animations including
several pictures of hyperbolic tessellations.
 
    Hyperbolic
shortbread . The Davis math department eats a Poincaré model
of a tiling of the hyperbolic plane by 0-60-90 triangles.
 
    The
hyperbolic surface activity page .  Tom Holroyd describes hyperbolic
surfaces occurring in nature, and explains how to make a paper model of
a hyperbolic surface based on a tiling by heptagons.
 
    Hyperbolic Tessellations , David Joyce, Clark U.
 
    Hyperbolic tiles .
John Conway answers a question of Doug Zare on the polyhedra
that can form periodic tilings of 3-dimensional hyperbolic space.
 
    Hyperbolic and
spherical tiling gallery , Bernie Freidin.
 
    Hyperbolic
planar tessellations , image gallery of many regular and semiregular
tilings by Don Hatch.
     
 
    Mathematical imagery by Jos Leys .
Knots, Escher tilings, spirals, fractals, circle inversions, hyperbolic
tilings, Penrose tilings, and more.
 
    More
hyperbolic tilings  and software for creating them, J. Mount.
 
    Pavages hyperboliques dans le modèle de Poincaré .
Animated with CabriJava.  Includes separate pages on hyperbolic tilings
with regular polygons including squares, pentagons, and hexagons.
 
    Penguins
on the hyperbolic plane , Misha Kapovich.
See also his Escher-like
 Crocodiles
on the Euclidean plane .
 
    Two-three-seven tiling  of the hyperbolic plane
with lines that connect to give a fiery appearance.
From the Geometry Center archives.
 
     
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  Send email  if you
know of an appropriate page not listed here.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 