 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  January 27,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         Applying data to real-world challenges</strong>
              Computer Science Ph.D. student Dimitrios Kotzias wins Yelp Dataset Challenge with novel machine learning algorithm.





    
                  

   
Computer Science Ph.D. student  Dimitrios Kotzias  has won in round five of Yelp’s recent  Dataset Challenge , where the crowdsourced consumer review business provides teams of researchers with data sets comprised of real reviews to use as a test bed. Yelp rewards the unique and innovative research spawned from each round of their data set challenges, to date awarding more than $40,000 in cash prizes and inspiring hundreds of academic papers.

  
Kotzias, along with his adviser Padhraic Smyth, director of UCI's  Data Science Initiative , and researchers from the University of Oxford and Google  DeepMind , developed a novel approach to using group-level labels, such as the category of an entire review, to learn instance-level classification, such as the category of specific sentences inside a review. The machine learning algorithm can accurately detect whether individual sentences within a review are expressing positive or negative sentiment. Applications span far beyond Yelp, enabling companies like Netflix, Amazon and eBay extract useful information for consumers from the text in online reviews. Kotzias' team details this new algorithm in their paper, “ From Group to Individual Labels using Deep Features .”

  
Kotzias says his involvement with the Yelp Dataset Challenge was accidental: “My co-authors and I were creating a model and sculpting our idea, and we needed data to test if our idea worked our not. Yelp offered a very nice data set because of the reviews we were able to utilize for free. There was also the added benefit of entering the challenge if we used Yelp's data.”

  
A Yelp data scientist noted in a  blog post  that the team’s “innovative research has broad implications for a variety of fields, and not just text classification.” He writes, “This entry was selected from many submissions for its technical and academic merit.”

  
In addition to receiving a $5,000 cash prize for winning the competition, Kotzias presented on the research at the  21st ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining . The paper was also published in the conference’s proceedings.

  
For Kotzias, he greatly appreciated the opportunity to work with real-world data. “I think one of the most attractive features of competing with real data is to see research created by academics applied to real-world challenges. You certainly gain a broader mindset when attempting to reach a twofold goal: research and real use and application. It is also fascinating how open the field is and how much progress has been achieved by ideas that have emerged from events such as this,” he says.









                      Applying data to real-world challenges    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Get A Grip On Your Information Overload With 'Infomagical'
              
                Next &gt; 
                 UCI researchers link compulsive Facebook checking to lack of sleep

             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 