 Reaction Explorer: Help Notes<body>
            
     
         
              
             Reaction Explorer: Help Notes 
                             
                 
                    
                       Babel  
                          Mass2Structure                          
                          MolInfo  
                          MSFragment  
                          Pattern Count Screen  
                          Pattern Match Counter  
                          Smi2Depict  
                          Reaction Processor  
                                                                                                
                 
                    
                       Chemical Search  
                          COSMOS  
                          Reaction Explorer  
                          Reaction Predictor                          
                          Virtual Chemical Space  
                      
                
             
                 Home    Reaction Explorer    Help Notes    
         

           
            

         General Help 
         
                         
                 Basics                                 
                  System should require nothing more than a web browser to access.
                        Internet Explorer and FireFox have been successfully tested, but
                        others are not guaranteed to work (Safari has known issues).
                      Reagents are generally "1 equivalent" unless otherwise stated.
                      Syntheses are generated randomly by the system,
                        thus the solutions and steps suggested by the system
                        may be non-unique and non-ideal.
                   "Real" Examination Caveats 
                  When generating reaction products, the system will often
                        omit "inherent products" in the results for the sake of brevity.
                        For example, bromine radical addition should yield HBr as a by product
                        and condensation reactions should yield H 2 O
                        in the products, but the system does not display these.
                        For "real" examination purposes, you should
                        include all of these to properly balance all reaction equations.
                      While practicing with the system, selecting a reagent from a list
                        is simple enough, don't forget that in "real" exams, you will most likely
                        have to write out the complete reagent specifications from memory.
                   
            
             
                 Walkthroughs 
                 
                    Follow the links below to get a walkthrough of the most basic steps needed to complete common tasks.
                    Entries with the   icon represent video tutorials.
                 
                   Introduction and Overview for the System   
                       General Usage Instructions   
                       Setup and Complete a Random Synthesis Problem 
                       Setup and Complete a Non-Random (Assigned) Synthesis Problem 
                       Review a Checklist of Problem Completion Requirements 
                       Complete a Mechanism Problem 
                    
                    
                   
         
        
         Help Sections 
         
             
                   FAQ  
                      Synthesis Explorer  
                      Mechanism Explorer  
                      Reaction Drills  
                      Molecule View  
                      Problem Record  
                  
                       Q. I'm lost and do not even know how to get started.  What should I do? 
                          A. Check out the  walkthroughs  which
                            include step-by-step instructions on how to get started
                            with the most common tasks.
                             Q. How do I login to the site? 
                          A. There is no formal login page for the site.
                                When you generate a synthesis problem from the "Synthesis Explorer"
                                setup box, just make sure you put in your user ID (student ID number)
                                next to the "User Class and ID" label and the system
                                will keep track of your records from there.
                             Q. How do I submit a completed problem? 
                          A. There is no separate answer submission step.  If you "logged in"
                                by putting in your user ID as described above, just work on the
                                synthesis problems and as soon as you enter the right answer,
                                the system will automatically congratulate you on your success
                                and record your progress in the system.  You can verify this as
                                it will state "Your progress was recorded in the system."
                             Q. How many attempts do I get to complete a problem?  Is there a time limit? 
                          A. All problems provide an unlimited number of tries,
                            with no penalty for guessing.  Problems do not have time limits
                            (other than due dates for assignments).  The system does not
                            ever record anything you do "wrong," it only records when you
                            get a problem correct.  So feel free to click around and experiment
                            with different things.  You will never be penalized and this can
                            be a great way to really learn and master the material.
                             Q. How do I work the synthesis problems? 
                          A. Check out the  walkthroughs  which
                            include step-by-step instructions on how to get started.
                             Q. How do I check how many problems I've already completed? 
                          A. Check out the  walkthroughs  which
                            include step-by-step instructions on how to get started.
                              
                            Most students will just be interested in the "Progress Checklist"
                            to see how to complete their class requirements, but
                            detailed "Problem Records" are also available under the User Records section.
                             Q. When I work on "random" synthesis problems, what chapter should I work on? 
                          A. This is largely up to you.  You have the freedom and flexibility to
                            select any chapters you feel you need to review the most.  Note that you can
                            even select multiple chapters to generate more challenging (and realistic) problems.
                              
                            Beware that, depending on your class, you may have
                            additional requirements to complete at least X problems
                            from each relevant chapter.  In that case, you should try
                            to cover the chapters listed on your Progress Checklist page.
                              
                            Fulfilling these chapter requirements is easier than you probably think:
                              Completing assigned (non-random) problems counts towards
                                    completing the chapter requirements.
                                  You can select multiple chapters when generating a
                                    random problem (Ctrl+Click to select multiple),
                                    and then completing just one such problem will count towards
                                    all included chapters.
                                  Technically you could generate and solve just 2 problems that
                                    include every chapter and that will already fulfill
                                    the chapter requirements.
                                   Q. I've been working on one of the assigned "non-random" problems forever and still cannot figure it out.  Can I get some help? 
                          A. Some notes and tips on non-random problems:
                              Don't feel bad if you're having trouble with the assigned problems,
                                    they are specifically designed to be challenging.
                                  Unlike "random" problems, the assigned "non-random" problems do not allow you
                                    to see the solution until you have solved them, but you do still get
                                    to see the starting material "hint" and have unlimited tries with no penalty for guessing.
                                  Check the Reaction Drills for the respective chapters or the Examples links
                                    for the reagents if you need to review the major types of reactions.
                                  Go back to doing random problems from the same chapters to get more
                                    practice with the material until you can figure it out.
                                  Hint: Note that when you select a non-random problem, it includes a
                                    description like [Smith 11.12...].  This refers to the last chapter section
                                    that you need to know to solve the problem and if you read that particular
                                    section, it's probably a big hint towards how to solve the problem.
                                  For most classes, you can still get partial credit for
                                    the work you do even if you're unable to solve every assigned non-random problem.
                                  If you are still struggling, try working with your classmates or instructors to
                                    figure out the solutions.  No computer system is ever going to replace having
                                    a good colleague to discuss with.
                                   Q. One of the synthesis frames (reactant or reagent) will not load, preventing me from working on the problems.  What can I do? 
                          A. Several students have reported this issue, however I have been unable to
                            reproduce it to debug it.
                              
                            If you can at least get the Product and Pathway frames loaded,
                            there are a couple links at the bottom of the Product frame which allow you
                            to selectively reload the Reactants and Reagents frames.
                              
                            Another alternative is to click on the
                            "Select a Reactant" or "Select a Reagent" boxes from the
                            Pathway frame to spawn popup windows from which you can
                            select the reactants and reagents.  In this manner,
                            you never need to use the Reactant or Reagent frames at all.
                             Q. My web browser "freezes" when I try to work on a problem.  What can I do? 
                          A. I have not been able to consistently reproduce such issues, but here are
                            some possible ideas.
                              One known cause of "freezing" is some kind of defect in the
                                    Skype instant messenger, Internet Explorer add-in.
                                    Read the following web page for more details on how
                                    to get rid of it:
                                     http://share.skype.com/sites/devzone/2007/06/the_skype_addin_for_internet_e.html 
                                  Your best bet may be to just try it
                                    from a different computer.  I tried several computers in the
                                    science library and they all work.
                                  Make sure all other windows and applications are closed
                                    and not interfering with the site.
                                  Maybe avoid the [Mechanism] and "magnify" functions as I noticed
                                    FireFox has trouble loading the Java applet the first time.
                                    Once it successfully loads once (even if it's in Internet Explorer)
                                    it does seem to work thereafter.  You should still be able to complete
                                    all synthesis problems without using any of these pages.
                                  Check the FAQ about frames not loading which has some tips
                                    which may be related to what's happening.
                                   Q. The system shows the reactant, reagent and product for all reactions, so what am I actually supposed to do? 
                          A. First, make sure you are not in the "Reaction Drills" section.
                            Those are only for your review and are not graded.
                            If you are in the actual "Synthesis Explorer" interface,
                            the system does predict the products for you, but your job
                            is to come up with the right sequence and combination of reactants
                            and reagents to arrive at the "Target Product" in the top-right frame.
                             Q. I tried every reactant and reagent combination and none of them produced the target product.  What's wrong? 
                          A. These are supposed to be *multi-step* synthesis problems,
                            so it's very likely that the problem cannot be solved by
                            any single reactant-reagent combination.
                            To complete a multi-step synthesis problem,
                            after you complete one reaction, you need to click on
                            the *product* of the reaction to copy it as a *reactant*
                            for a subsequent step.
                            The synthesis problem walkthrough illustrates an example of this.
                             Q. I am an instructor from another institution and am interested in using the system in my class.  How can I go about this? 
                          A. Your students can already freely access the system to work on problems.
                            If they "login" with a unique identifier (e.g., student ID number), the system
                            will also track the problem completion records.  As the instructor, you may then
                            review these records from the  Problem Records  page
                            which includes additional instructions.
                              
                            For more advanced instructor features, such as assigning specific (vs. random) problems
                            with enforced due dates, instructors should  contact the developers 
                            to arrange an appropriate collaboration to configure the system accordingly.
                                       
                
                 
                     
                        Illustrated below are system screenshots with annotated descriptions 
                        of the purpose and function of different buttons and controls.
                     
                     
                         
                             Random Synthesis Problem 
                                                     
                                
                                    
                             
                         
                        
                         
                             Non-Random, Assigned Synthesis 
                             
                                
                                    
                             
                         

                           

                         
                               Available Reactants :
                                    The starting materials available to you when trying to
                                    synthesize the target product.  Click on one to copy it down
                                    to the synthesis pathway workspace area.
                                   Available Reagents :
                                    The chemical reagents available to react with the reactants
                                    to synthesize the target product.  Click on one to copy it down
                                    to the synthesis pathway workspace area.
                                    Note the text links to the right of each reagent which will
                                    bring up additional information on how to use the reagent.
                                   Target Product :
                                    The structure of the chemical product you must synthesize
                                    to successfully complete the problem.  Do this by correctly
                                    combining available reactants and reagents in the correct
                                    combination and sequence.
                                    Cautionary messages may appear below the product if the
                                    system generated synthesis plan includes steps which yield
                                    multiple products or stereoisomers.
                                   Reactor / Product Generation :
                                    After copying appropriate reactants and reagents to the
                                    synthesis pathway workspace area, click this to apply the
                                    reaction model and have the system predict what products
                                    will be generated from that combination.  If the result
                                    matches the target product, you have completed the problem.
                                   Previous Products &amp; Reactions  :
                                    Reactions you have composed from previous steps, including
                                    their predicted products are displayed below.  Click on
                                    one of these previous products to copy it as a reactant
                                    for the latest reaction step to continue a multi-step synthesis.
                               
                         
                               Context Sensitive Help :
                                    Help messages will appear here briefly describing whatever
                                    button / control you "rollover" with your cursor.
                                   Add Reactants :
                                    Controls to sketch (pencil) and add your own reactant
                                    structures to try novel reactant-reagent combinations.
                                   Starting Materials Hint :
                                    Provides a hint by bringing all of
                                    the starting materials used in the system's solution for
                                    the synthesis near the top of the available reactants list.
                                    As an added challenge, distractor molecules that are similar
                                    to the "real" starting materials will be mixed in,
                                    requiring you to select for the correct ones.
                                  Control Buttons
                                      New Problem :
                                        After completing or giving up on the current target product,
                                        click this to generate a new target product using the
                                        same setup parameters (i.e., categories / chapters).
                                      Max Steps :
                                        When generating a new problem, it will have a solution
                                        with no more than the number of steps indicated.
                                      Printer Friendly :
                                        Display the current synthesis problem in printer
                                        friendly format in case you prefer to print out
                                        and work on the problems offline.
                                      Solution :
                                        Display a possible solution for the synthesis of the
                                        target product, the one generated by the system.
                                      Return to Setup :
                                        Return to the system setup / home page.
                               
                     
                 
                
                 
                     
                        Illustrated below are system screenshots with annotated descriptions 
                        of the purpose and function of different buttons and controls.
                     
                                       
                         
                             Random Mechanisms 
                             
                                
                                    
                             
                         
                         
                             Non-Random, Assigned Mechanisms 
                             
                                
                                    
                                                 
                         
                     
                     
                           
                           Overall Reaction :
                                The net / overall reaction for which you are to determine the
                                curved arrow mechanism diagram for.
                               Mechanism Arrow Sketcher :
                                Where you sketch your proposed curved arrow mechanism diagrams.
                                The sketcher should be pre-loaded with the
                                reactant side of the next mechanism step to be completed.
                                Refer to the  Mechanism Sketching Tips 
                                for more info on how to use the sketcher.  In general, the only functions
                                you should need in this sketcher are the curved arrow buttons on the left (circled).
                                 This requires a Java applet, signed by  ChemAxon ,
                                so make sure you have Java enabled in your browser and you accept the applet.
                                If you do not wish to use it, you can still view the expected mechanism with
                                the Solution button.
                               Mechanism Product :
                                Represents the expected product of electrons following the arrows
                                from the mechanism arrow diagram on the left.  If presented as a sketcher,
                                that means you must modify the sketcher contents yourself to represent
                                the expected product structure.  In general, the only functions you should need
                                in this sketcher are the bond drawing tool and the formal charge modifiers (circled).
                               Product Generator / Mechanism Calculator :
                                Once you have completed a mechanism step diagram with
                                curved arrows, click here to have the system actually
                                "apply" the arrows to the molecule, changing the
                                configuration of bonds and electrons, to generate
                                the expected product of the diagram.
                               Support Buttons :
                                  Resizable Sketcher(s) :
                                    If your diagram is getting to large to fit in the sketchers,
                                    click this checkbox to make popup, resizable sketchers available.
                                  Hint :
                                    Click to load the next expected step's structures into the sketcher(s).
                                    From there, just complete the step with curved arrows representing
                                    the electron flows between the reactant and product sides.
                                  Solution :
                                    Display the system's expected mechanism steps.
                               Submitted Mechanism Steps :
                                Shows all of the mechanism steps that you have submitted, along
                                with any notes on correctness.
                           Mechanism Sketching Tips                         
                        The mechanism / structure sketcher applet should look similar to the following.
                        This is a fully-featured sketcher with many different
                        functions, including the creation of your own novel molecules.
                        For most cases however, there are only few functions you will ever need.
                         
                                Component Select and Erase :
                                    Use the select tool to click-and-drag pieces of the diagram around.
                                    This can help arrange the diagram pieces to facilitate arrow drawing.
                                    The eraser can be used to remove unnecessary pieces.
                                   Electron Flow Arrows :
                                    Two different types of curved arrows can be used to sketch electron flows.
                                    The first is a typical arrow for moving 2 electrons at a time, while the second
                                    is a "fishhook" arrow for moving 1 electron at a time (i.e., radical reactions).
                                    Alternatively, you may access the arrow functions from the
                                    Insert &gt; Electron Flow command menu.
                                   Bond and Charge Modifiers :
                                    The product structure sketcher will generally be pre-loaded with the reactant
                                    structure for the next mechanism step.  To convert it into the expected product
                                    structure, you will generally only need to use the bond tool to
                                    create new bonds or modify bond orders, as well as the formal charge modifiers.
                
                                       Arrow Drawing Tips :
                                    Once you select an arrow type, just click on the source
                                    of an arrow such as a bond or atom (i.e., lone pair or free radical),
                                    and then on the target / sink for the arrow, usually
                                    an atom or the space between two atoms where a new bond  will  form.
                                    In the last case, a dashed line should
                                    appear in the place where this incipient bond would form
                                    to help you precisely specify your diagram target.
                
                                      Bonds as Electron Sources :
                                    When the source of an electron flow is a bond, special care must
                                    be taken when selecting the target / sink for the flow.
                                    Information on the "polarity" of the bond, in particular, which
                                    atom of the source bond the electrons will remain attached to,
                                    must be specified.  This is specified by having the target of
                                    the electron flow be slightly  between  a target atom
                                    and at least one of the source atoms.  See the first two examples
                                    below for what may appear to be the same mechanism step, but
                                    which differs in the result based on how the polarity of
                                    the source bond is specified, as indicated by the blue half-circles
                                    around the target atoms, and the dashed line representing an
                                    incipient "forming" bond.
                
                                      Free Radical Mechanisms :
                                    The last example below illustrates a free radical mechanism step.
                                    These commonly involve 3 "fishhook" arrows and often involve
                                    2 such arrows meeting halfway  between  two atoms,
                                    again indicated by the dashed line for a forming bond.
                                                     
                           
                                                 
                 
                
                 
                     
                        Illustrated below are system screenshots with annotated descriptions 
                        of the purpose and function of different buttons and controls.
                     
                     
                        Each row represents a distinct single step reaction with a component missing, left for
                        you to fill-in-the-blank.  This is a good way to quickly quiz yourself to learn and
                        review basic reactivity.  This is intended as a self-test exercise, so no progress
                        report is recorded in the system for these.  Instead, you should just try
                        visualizing or writing down the answer to each problem  on paper before
                        revealing the answers.
                     
                     
                         
                            
                                
                         
                                         
                     
                            Missing Component :
                                Reactant, reagent or product of the single step reaction that is missing,
                                left for you to fill-in-the-blank.
                              Control Buttons
                                  Show Answer : Once you've made a guess for missing component,
                                    click on "Show Answer" to reveal the answer the system generated.
                                  Mechanism : Click to load up the reaction in the Mechanism Explorer
                                    to practice writing or directly view the arrow-pushing mechanism
                                    for the reaction.
                                  Challenge : Click if you feel the predicted product for the
                                    reaction is in error.  This will bring up a form where you can
                                    submit what you believe the correct behavior should be for
                                    subsequent review.
                                  Magnifying Glass : Most molecules depicted throughout
                                    the system will include a magnifying glass link icon nearby
                                    which will load up the molecule in the Molecule View page for
                                    additional details on the molecule, such as stereochemistry,
                                    rotatable 3D structures and standard IUPAC names.
                               Generate More Problems : After completing a page worth a problems,
                                click "Generate More Problems" to refresh the page with a new set of
                                problems using the same category / chapter filter criteria.
                           
                 
                
                 
                     
                        Illustrated below are system screenshots with annotated descriptions 
                        of the purpose and function of different buttons and controls.
                     
                     
                            2D View and Sketcher :
                                2D view of the molecule, including absolute labels for all stereocenters.
                                Click on the viewer applet to bring up a sketcher window to manipulate
                                and modify the molecule.
                               3D View (Rotatable) :
                                3D view of the molecule which can be rotated by clicking and dragging
                                the viewer.  Right-click the viewer for additional options, such
                                as adding explicit hydrogens.
                               New Molecule Input :
                                After sketching a new molecule in the 2D viewer / sketcher, click on
                                [Load from Sketcher] then [View Molecule] to reload the page based
                                on that molecule, which will update the 3D viewer and other fields accordingly.
                               Standard Name :
                                Systematic name (usually IUPAC or common name standard) for the molecule.
                                If the name includes the phrase "BLAH" it means the system was unable
                                to fully determine the proper name for the molecule.
                           
                 
                
                 
                     
                        Illustrated below are system screenshots with annotated descriptions 
                        of the purpose and function of different buttons and controls.
                     
                     
                        
                            
                     
                                        
                     
                            Query Parameters :
                                Use this to select which parts of your problem record to review.
                                Usually just put in your student ID number and that will do.
                               Problem Record Summary :
                                Summarizes your past record of problems completed.  Note that only
                                multi-step synthesis problems successfully solved are recorded.
                                The most relevant statistics include the total number of problems
                                you have completed, listed under the "Any" column and the "total" row.
                                Click on your your user ID link to view the detailed records.
                                          
                 
             
         
     
 


</body> 