 Arthur Asuncion's Official Site: Blog<body>
     Arthur Asuncion         
	     --   --   --   --   --   --   --   
	   Personal Blog</strong> 
         
     
	
	  Thursday, January 13, 2005
          
       
         
            Quotes From Antony Flew    
        
           
               Here are some money quotes from Professor Antony Flew, who was arguably the most influential atheist in the 20th century. Flew publicly renounced atheism in 2004 due to the strength of the intelligent design argument (particularly the complexity of DNA). While Flew considers himself a minimal theist (or a Deist), he has indicated an openness to Christianity. Some skeptics have unsuccessfully tried to hand-wave away Flew's conversion to theism. However, the magnitude of Flew's conversion to theism is monumental -- it would be similar to Billy Graham becoming an atheist, or the Pope becoming a protestant, or Howard Dean becoming a conservative... you get the point.   From Dr. Gary Habermas' 2004 interview with Professor Antony Flew :  ...  HABERMAS: You very kindly noted that our debates and discussions had influenced your move in the direction of theism. (11) You mentioned that this initial influence contributed in part to your comment that naturalistic efforts have never succeeded in producing "a plausible conjecture as to how any of these complex molecules might have evolved from simple entities." (12) Then in your recently rewritten introduction to the forthcoming edition of your classic volume God and Philosophy, you say that the original version of that book is now obsolete. You mention a number of trends in theistic argumentation that you find convincing, like big bang cosmology, fine tuning and Intelligent Design arguments. Which arguments for God's existence did you find most persuasive?  FLEW: I think that the most impressive arguments for God's existence are those that are supported by recent scientific discoveries. I've never been much impressed by the kalam cosmological argument, and I don't think it has gotten any stronger recently. However, I think the argument to Intelligent Design is enormously stronger than it was when I first met it.  ...  HABERMAS: So of the major theistic arguments, such as the cosmological, teleological, moral, and ontological, the only really impressive ones that you take to be decisive are the scientific forms of teleology?  FLEW: Absolutely. It seems to me that Richard Dawkins constantly overlooks the fact that Darwin himself, in the fourteenth chapter of The Origin of Species, pointed out that his whole argument began with a being which already possessed reproductive powers. This is the creature the evolution of which a truly comprehensive theory of evolution must give some account. Darwin himself was well aware that he had not produced such an account. It now seems to me that the findings of more than fifty years of DNA research have provided materials for a new and enormously powerful argument to design.  ...   
           
            2:23 PM  
		     
       
      
      
      
	
	
	  Monday, January 10, 2005
          
       
         
            Happy New Year    
        
           
               Happy New Year to everybody. I hope you had a wonderful Christmas break. Anyways, I have revamped my site once again, so feel free to revisit all of the pages. In particular, I have added more music to the  music page  and have modified the  Guitar Intelli-Generator  site to accomodate Mac users (on Safari). My latest  Art's Angle articles  are also posted.   
           
            5:19 PM  
		     
       
      
      
      
	
	 
	  Archives: 
	  
	   
   	   February 2004    March 2004   September 2004   October 2004   November 2004   January 2005   February 2005   June 2005   July 2005   April 2006   May 2006   April 2007   July 2007   May 2008   October 2008   November 2008   December 2008   March 2009   April 2009   May 2009   August 2009   
     
     Copyright 
 ©  Arthur Asuncion 2006. This is a personal website which is not endorsed by the University. By using this site, you signify that Arthur Asuncion is not liable for anything. Last Modified 4/2/06.  
    </body> 