  Butterworth Product Development and the Beall Design Competitions @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>

 This site will look much better in a browser that supports  web standards , but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device. 
   

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










      Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  Events  &gt;    
    
  
 
     Butterworth Product Development  Competition in ICS  and  Beall Student Design Competition in Engineering    
  
 
 We've redesigned the competitions website. 
 Please visit the new site at:   http://tech.uci.edu/competitions/ . 
 

  Prizes for each competition are:    1st Place: $7,500  2nd Place: $5,000  3rd Place: $2,500 
   Butterworth Product Development Competition at the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences    Is a product development competition designed to encourage the creation of new technologies with potential for commercialization. Ideas and products are evaluated on their technological merits and potential to impact the marketplace. Students are encouraged to submit new products that involve the development of software and systems. Products that entail integration are acceptable as long as there is a substantial development effort. 
 The competition is open to all UCI students. Teams must be composed of at least two (2) students, one (1) of which must be enrolled at the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. 
  Beall Student Design Competition at The Henry Samueli School of Engineering    Offered to encourage the creation of new technologies, or solutions to current design problems that have the potential for commercialization. Ideas and products are evaluated on their technological merits as well as potential to impact the marketplace. Students are encouraged to submit new product ideas that involve the development of hardware and devices. Products that entail integration are acceptable as long as there is a substantial development effort. 
 The competition is open to all UCI students. Teams must be composed of at least two (2) students, one (1) of which must be enrolled at The Henry Samueli School of Engineering.  
 
 
   Quick Links   
                        
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 

</body> 