 Software Uncertainty Modeling 
                  Next:   Premises and Hypothesis 
 Up:   Introduction 
  Previous:   Introduction 
  
   Software Uncertainty Modeling  
 
   
  
Software is a large and complex artifact, produced primarily
by humans for humans.  Software development and operational
use are therefore dominated by human action, human judgment
and decision making, and inevitably human error.
The outcome is, therefore, often uncertain and unpredictable
and, along with uncertainty in natural phenomena, leads to
unavoidable software uncertainties.
Most if not all software failures are experienced by or
otherwise affect human users.  Similarly, most software
defects can be traced to human origins, be it an error
introduced directly by a developer or a defect that is
only indirectly human-related.  An IEEE software
engineering standard, for example, identifies two key
sources of software uncertainty as ``poor knowledge
or understanding of the problem domain'' and
``insufficient, untimely orientation to user needs and to
overall quality'' [ IEE94 ].
  
The observation
that ``software engineering is fraught with uncertainty''
is often used to explain the known symptoms of the
software crisis, including high costs and unexpected
slips in development schedule as well as unpredictable
failures of operational software.  The abundance of
uncertainty also justifies extensive measures taken
by researchers and practitioners attempting to identify
and alleviate software risks and uncertainties.
  
While software risk management has long been an active
field of research producing significant contributions
(cf. [ Boe89 ,  Boe91 ]), the subject
of software uncertainties has largely been overlooked,
with the notable exception of software reliability
models [ Lit79 ] and models for validation
of software dependability [ LS93 ].
This omission is particularly surprising in light of
extensive research in modeling and management of
uncertainty carried out in Artificial Intelligence
(AI) domains (cf. [ Pea88 ,  Nea90 ,  HMW95 ]).
  
Thus, despite the pervasiveness of human involvement
and related software uncertainties, surprisingly few
attempts have been made to model those uncertainties
explicitly.  This dissertation aims to remedy this
situation, initially by presenting the Maxim of 
Uncertainty in Software Engineering (MUSE) and as
a corollary, urging that
software uncertainties be modeled directly, using
an appropriate uncertainty modeling technique.
  
Ideally, an uncertainty modeling technique should include
probabilistic notions of uncertainty and confidence,
provide for multiple sources of evidence and influence,
and support dynamic updating of uncertainty values during
software development.  In this dissertation, we claim
that Bayesian Belief Networks meet these desiderata and
are therefore suitable for software uncertainty modeling.
  
There are many perceived benefits of modeling software
uncertainty, including, among others:
   
Uncertainty permeates software development, yet is generally
absent in most software models.  A model providing explicit
representation of software uncertainties would therefore be
more accurate (and possibly more useful) than one where
uncertainties are disregarded.  
The search for uncertainty plays a pivotal role in an overall
software risk management strategy.  Following
Gemmer [ Gem97 ], ``It is impossible to manage risk
without ferreting out elements of uncertainty.  Uncertainty
is present in all decisions we face.''  A key risk
minimization activity is to ``systematically search for
uncertainty wherever it may be.''  
Finally, software uncertainty modeling may help guide and 
ultimately improve software process decisions.  Based on
changes and fluctuations in software uncertainty levels, 
for example, a project manager may decide to ``conclude
testing,'' ``instigate regression testing,'' or else
``shuffle testing priorities.''  
   
We generally believe that software uncertainty modeling
holds promise for improved human understanding and decision
making in a wide range of development activities.  In this
dissertation, however, we focus on specific benefits of
uncertainty modeling for specific development situations.
To this end, we describe several premises and propose a
specific research hypothesis to be validated against a
real software project.  The premises and hypothesis for
this dissertation are described next.
  
                   Next:   Premises and Hypothesis 
 Up:   Introduction 
  Previous:   Introduction 
   
 Hadar Ziv  
Fri Jun 20 16:22:31 PDT 1997 
 
</body> 