 
      Dr. Rina Dechter @ UCI
    <body>

  [an error occurred while processing this directive]

     
          
       ICS-179, Algorithms for Reasoning and Learning in Probabilistic and Deterministic Graphical Models, Spring 2010         
         grades  |
         home work  |
         lecture notes |
	 projects 
          
          Classroom: DBH 1300   Days: Monday &amp; Wednesday
            Time: 11:00 - 12:20pm
            Instructor: Rina Dechter -  dechter@ics.uci.edu  
              Office: DBH 4232  
              Hours: TBA
            TA: TBA 
              Office: TBA  
              Hours: TBA     Course Goals: 
	 
	  Graphical models have become the primary approach for automated reasoning which evolved around two distinct ways of representing knowledge. The first is using hard and soft constraints. For example, a hard constraint might be, “a student cannot enroll in two courses if they meet at the same time,” and a soft constraint might be, “a student prefers that his first class on Monday will be after 10 am.”  The second way of representing knowledge is probabilistic, recognizing that knowledge involves uncertainty. An example of a probabilistic information would be, “if a student has a solid math background, he or she is likely (but not certain) to do well in computer science classes.”  Many real-life applications involve both types of information.
	    

The class will focus on graphical models, such as constraint networks, Bayesian networks and Markov networks that have become a central paradigm for knowledge representation and reasoning in Artificial Intelligence and general computer science. These models are used in numerous applications in industrial and engineering tasks, such as scheduling, planning, diagnosis and prediction, design, hardware and software verification, and in bioinformatics applications.  The primary tasks can be formalized as constraint satisfaction and satisfiability, combinatorial optimization and likelihood queries.  While it is well known that computing an answer to any of the above queries is computationally hard, research during the past three decades has yielded a variety of principles and techniques for mitigating the computational challenge.

          Methodology 
         In this class I will teach the algorithmic principles that allow reasoning and learning for graphical models. We will study how those principles can address the complexity of solving problems within this framework, even though all are NP-hard. Students will also be exposed to the primary software developed in the community. This includes state of the art software for satisfiability and constraint satisfaction, counting and likelihood queries as well as constraint optimization. We will draw examples and engage in modeling in some applications including bio-informatics and planning.
          Text books and class notes 
	  Primary book: “Constraint Processing” , R. Dechter, Morgan Kauffman, 2003
	    “Modeling and Reasoning with Bayesian Networks”, A. Darwiche, MIT Press, 2009
	     Class notes 
	   Requirements 

          Homeworks : There will be 4-5 problem sets
	    A term project: a programming project and/or a paper presentation
	    Grading: 
         
         Homeworks:  65%  Project:  35%  

          Outline: 
	  The constraint network and its graphical  representations and queries: consistency, counting and optimization
	    Constraint propagation algorithms; arc-consistency and unit propagation
	    Inference algorithm for constraint networks: Adaptive-consistency, the induced-width and the tree-width
	    Backtracking search algorithms; pruning search by constraint propagation, backjumping and learning
	    Bayesian Networks,  Markov networks and their queries: probability of evidence,  belief updating and most probable explanation
	    The Belief Propagation algorithm and the basic of graph-based conditional independence
	    Inference algorithms for probabilistic networks: Bucket elimination, join-tree algorithms
	    Cutset-conditioning algorithms and approximation schemes (sampling and belief propagation)
	    Learning Graphical models: Learning parameters
	    Learning Graphical models: Learning structure
	   Schedule: 
         
          

            Week  


          Topic  


          Date    
	  Information  &amp;nbsp  
	  Assignment  
                Week 1 


         
         Introduction
         

         03-29 
	 
	   Introduction lecture slides 
 
	   
	  
	 
	 
                 Week 2 

         
        
         

         04-05 
	  Constraint networks. Chapters 1-2
	  
	  Homework1  
                Week 3 

         
         
         

         04-12 
		 
	   Chapter 3: constraint propagation 
 
	
	   
                 Week 4 

         
         
         
         04-19 
 
 Chapter 4: Directional consistency 
 
 
 Homework 2 
 
                Week 5 

         
          
         

         04-26 
	 
	   Chapter 5: Look-ahead strategy 

                 Week 6 

         
        
         

         05-03 
		 
			 Chapter 6: Backtracking search, look-back 
		
	
	  

	   Homework 3   Minisat   WALKSAT   RSAT   REES   SAT solvers handbook 
	 
               Week 7 

         
         
         

         05-10 
	 
		 Chapter 7: Probabilistic networks 
	 
             
	
	   Week 8 

         
         
         


         05-17 
	 
	   Chapter 8: Inference algorithms 
	   
		 
	   Homework 4 part 1 
	 
                Week 9 

         
        
         

         05-24 
		 
	   
		 
	   Homework 4 part 2 
	 
                Week 10 

         
         
         

         05-31 
                Week 11 

         
         
         

         06-07 
           
	

            
           

    
 School of Information and Computer Science 
 University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3435 
 Dr. Rina Dechter 

 dechter at ics.uci.edu 

  

  </body> 