 ICS 6D Summer 2014  Syllabus<body>

 Course Information 
 ICS 6D  Discrete Mathematics for Computer Science 
 Summer Session I:  2014 


  


   Instructor  

Prof. Sandy Irani  
Office: DBH 4042  
Office Hours: Tues 1:30-2:30 
Email:   irani@ics.uci.edu  



   Readers  

Zana Ghaderi 
Office: DBH 3065
  
Office Hours: Tuesday 3:00PM-4:00PM 
Email:   zghaderi@uci.edu    
   Meeting Places and Times 
 
Lecture will be held MWF 9:00-10:50 in  SSL 228.
You are responsible for anything said in class, including
class announcements. If you have to miss lecture for any
reason, please ask one of your classmates to fill you
in on what you missed.
 
 
There are two discussion sections for this class. Each section meets one hour per
week. This is an important time to get questions answered about homework
problems. No new content will be given in discussion, but you are highly encouraged to
attend as it will give valuable practice on problems.
 




 Obtaining Assistance 
The best way to get your questions answered is by coming
to lecture, office hours or discussion and asking them there.
In general,
if I'm not busy with something else, I am happy to answer
short questions while I am in my office, so feel free to
stop by during other times in the week.

 
You can also email me with question related to the course.
However, if the question requires a long response, I am likely to ask you
to come see  me to discuss in person.
Please use your uci or ics email accounts when sending me email related to the course.
 
 
For questions about grading on  homework, please contact the course reader, Zana Ghaderi.
You can come to me with questions about grading on tests.
 


 Course Announcements 
  Course announcements will be sent via email to all students enrolled
in the class, at their official UCI email address.
  
 Click here  for the
archive of these messages.
   Homework and Quizes 


 
A test will be given every Wednesday of the course, except for the first week.
Those dates are: July 2, 9, 16, 23.
The tests will be given at the end of lecture and will last approximately 30-40
minutes. In calculating your grade, I use only the top  three scores from the four tests.
In exchnage for this,  I give absolutely no make up exams, regardless of the reason .
It is understandable, that there are sometimes circumstances beyond your control that
make it necessary to miss a test. The dropped test is designed to cover one
such occasion. In a densely packed 5-week quarter, we can only accommodate one missed
test.
 
 
Homework is due every Monday and Friday, except for the first day of class and July 4.
You will notice that the homework counts very little towards your grade.
It is important to do the homework because it enables you to learn the material but a missed
homework will not have a big effect on your grade.
  Absolutely no late homework assignments will be accepted.
</strong>.


  
Grades for the assignements and quizes will be posted through EEE.
If you have questions regarding grading, please see one of the readers.
 




 Text 

 
This quarter you will be using a web-based interactive, animated offering as your "textbook".
You are required to have an account for the course. The material
includes interactive
exercises which will count towards your grade.
The directions for subscribing can be found at:
    Go to  https://zybooks.zyante.com/#/zybooks .
Bookmark this site - this is your site for the entire quarter. 
 
You will need a
credit card or Paypal account to pay the subscription price of $35.
Note: a Paypal account is not required.
If you don't have a credit card or a Paypal account, contact  
support@zyante.com .
Contact  
support@zyante.com  for help or with any questions regarding obtaining a subscription.



 Course Structure 

The grading criteria for the course is:
 
Homework 5% 
Reading Assignments 4% 
Tests 60% 
Final 30% 
Completing the Course Evaluation 1%  
Note that there is a tiny bit of credit given for completing the course evaluation towards the
end of the quarter. It is
available through   EEE   and is
usually released a couple  weeks from the end of the quarter.
If enough students complete the evaluation then I have access to the list of students
who completed the evaluation. However, I do not see any evaluation results until the
quarter is over and grades have been turned in. Even after the quarter when I do
see the evaluation results, they are completely anonymous. Thus, there is no risk
to you in being completely honest in your evaluation. I take these evaluations very
seriously and use them to improve my teaching.


 Missed Midtern or Final Exam Policy 
The time and location of the final exam will be announced soon.
   If you miss the final exam and do not have a valid reason, you will receive
a score of 0 on the exam.
   The following policy applies if you miss the final exam for a valid reason.
  
There are only two classes of valid reasons for missing the final exam:
    An unforeseeable emergency, such as a medical emergency.
In such cases I will ask for documentation.
   An absence from an exam due to a foreseeable circumstance
that I have approved in advance.
    
A work conflict or a family vacation is NOT a valid reason for missing the final exam.
   If you wait until after the exam to get a foreseeable excuse approved,
and it is not approved,
you will receive a grade of zero (0) on the exam.
   If I accept your reason for missing the final exam, at my option I may
either (1) give you a makeup exam or (2) assign your grade on the basis
of the remaining course work that you did not miss.
   If I give a makeup exam, I may give it less weight
than announced on the course web page.
     Academic Honesty 
     The Bren School of ICS and the University have already established an academic honesty policy.  Read it.  
     Violators of academic honesty policies are subject to the penalties described in the Bren School of ICS policy. They are also subject to an immediate course grade of F, and you will not be allowed to drop the course to avoid the grade. Also be aware that a single documented case of academic dishonesty may preclude you from switching into computing majors, registering for computing minors, joining the ICS Honors Program, and graduating from a computing major with honors. 
     Guidelines to avoid plagarism: 
       Do not look at another person's homework. 
      Instead you should prefer to discuss the problem in plain English.
      This helps you to communicate clearly, practice technical jargon as it applies to your problem, and to identify how your solution exhibits behavior different from what you expect.
         Do not write down the solution in your notes. 
      It is perfectly fine (and encouraged) to collborate on work.
      Working in a group is a rewarding experience, and definitely a necessary skill in any professional career.
      The collaboration can include drawing diagrams and perhaps solving the problem on a whiteboard.
      However, you should avoid writing the solution in your notes.
      It is very useful to rethink the problem and go through the details and logic when you solve it again on your own. 
      We expect that: 
       You can monitor each other and enforce these rules among yourselves.  Making sure that others follow these guidelines will help to ensure that they don't pass off your work as their own.
         Your work honestly represents your efforts.  The entire purpose of obtaining an education is so that you can accumulate a body of skills and experience that will help you later on. If you do not perform the work yourself, then you have cheated yourself out of the education. Employers in our field can (and do) screen applicants for skills and knowledge. You will perform poorly (and discredit UCI) if you do not practice now by doing your own work. 
     </body> 