 ICS 32 Winter 2017<body>

 

 
ICS 32 Winter 2017 |
 News  |
 Course Reference  |
 Schedule  |
 Project Guide  |
 Notes and Examples  |
 About Alex 
 

  

 

 ICS 32 Winter 2017 
   Course News 

 

 

  Check back here every day or so.  I will generally post important coursewide announcements here.  They will be listed in reverse-chronological order (i.e., newest items first). 

   Date Added 
     News Item 
     Th 2/9 
     A couple of sets of  Notes and Examples  — including all that are relevant to  Project #3  — are now available, along with a  Schedule  update. 
     M 2/6 
      Project #3  is now available. 
     Th 2/2 
     I added a little bit of extra color into the  counter.py  example from today's  Notes and Examples  page. 
     W 2/1 
     More  Notes and Examples  are now available, along with a  Schedule  update. 
     Th 1/26 
     A number of typos and clarifications were made to today's  Notes and Examples . 
     W 1/18 
     Several new sets of  Notes and Examples  are now available, along with a  Schedule  update and  Project #2 . 
     F 1/13 
     The  Course Reference  has been updated with names and contact information for the TAs, along with the names of all of our lab tutors, and an indication of which TAs and tutors are responsible for which lab sections.
      Th 1/12 
     The  line_count.py  module from today's  Notes and Examples  section has been updated.  I had intended to post an updated version of the code (along with an updated version of the notes), but neglected to include the changed code in what I posted earlier in the week. 
     W 1/11 
     My office hours will be on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:30-9:45pm in DBH 1423, beginning on Thursday, January 12. 
     M 1/9 
     
       Welcome!  Please note a couple of things as we get started this quarter: 
        The first lectures will meet on Tuesday, January 10.  Lab sections begin meeting on Friday, January 13.  For more information about meeting times of lab sections, see the  Course Reference .  For information about lecture material and readings, see the  Schedule . 
         I encourage you to spend some time reading through the material on the course web site.  It will be updated periodically throughout the quarter, and there will always be an announcement here describing each update.  For now, notice the set of links at the top of this (and every) page, leading you to the  Course Reference , the  Schedule , and the  Project Guide , as well as a set of  Notes and Examples  — mostly emanating from the lectures — that will be posted throughout the quarter. 
         For those of you planning on using your own machines for at least some of your work, it might be worth spending some time working through  Assignment #0 , which provides instructions on getting the necessary software installed and configured.  (Read the  Project Guide  page first, for some context on the necessary software and some background on what we're going to be doing.) 
        
      

</body> 