 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  June 1,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         Carey receives 2016 IEEE TCDE CSEE Impact Award</strong>
              Professor Mike Carey accepted the prestigious IEEE Technical Committee of Data Engineering Computer Science, Engineering, and Education Impact Award in Helsinki.    
                    
Bren Chair and Professor  Michael Carey</strong> has received the IEEE Technical Committee of Data Engineering (TCDE) Computer Science, Engineering, and Education Impact Award. Carey attended the 32nd IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering ( ICDE ) in May to accept the award, as well as to give an invited talk titled "Beyond Rows and Columns: Is the Fourth Time the Charm?" (Download Carey’s  presentation slides .)

  
TCDE commends Carey for his “leadership and research excellence in building impactful data management systems, engineering tools, products, and practices.”

  
The  award  recognizes database researchers with broad-reaching impact in fields beyond data engineering, like computer science, engineering or education. Only one researcher is honored with the prestigious award annually.

  
According to the  ICDE website , the annual conference “addresses research issues in designing, building, managing, and evaluating advanced data systems and applications. It is a leading forum for researchers, practitioners, developers, and users to explore cutting-edge ideas and to exchange techniques, tools, and experiences.”

  
This year’s conference is held in Helsinki, Finland, due to the city’s numerous contributions in the areas of software engineering, mobile communications and computing, databases and data mining.



   Carey receives 2016 IEEE TCDE CSEE Impact Award    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Robots to the rescue
              
                Next &gt; 
                 Foreign Students Seen Cheating More Than Domestic Ones
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 