 ICS 1C HW 4 Submission Form<body>

 
 ICS 1C HW 4 Submission Form  


 General Instructions 


As part of  
UCI ICS 1C, Homework 4 , complete and submit this form during
lab on 26 August 1996.
 
You fill in the form by typing the information requested in
each of the areas given below.
Instructions on ``submitting'' your responses are given at the end
of this document.
  Team Member's Identification Information 
Projects can be done individually or by a team of 2 or 3 members.
 
 Team Member 1: 
 
E-mail:  .oac.uci.edu   Team Member 2: 
 
E-mail:  .oac.uci.edu   Team Member 3: 
 
E-mail:  .oac.uci.edu     Five distinct sites you've found 
  
URL of the first distinct site you found:  
Short description of this site:
   
URL of the second distinct site you found:  
Short description of this site:
   
URL of the third distinct site you found:  
Short description of this site:
   
URL of the fourth distinct site you found:  
Short description of this site:
   
URL of the fifth distinct site you found:  
Short description of this site:
    Proposal 
  Submitting this assignment. 

  Select the  Preview the way your document will look  option
 below and press the
the  Do It!  button to perform the indicated action.
Note: If you do not like the way your document looks, use the ``Back''
button on your browser to get back to this form.
  When you like the way your document looks, view its HTML source
and save a copy of that source on your disk.
  Use a new web browser window to view the HTML document you just put
on your disk.
  Now, use the ``Back'' button on your browser to get back to this form and
select the second option
( Submit this information via e-mail )
and press the
 Do It!  button again.  The information will be mailed automatically.
   Use  ftp/fetch  to move a copy of the HTML document from
your disk to the 
 public_html  area on your  ea.oac.uci.edu  or
 orion.oac.uci.edu 
account, naming it  hw4prop.html , so that others can view it
via the Web.

   
 Preview the way your document will look   Submit this information via e-mail.   
 
  

August 27, 1996 for  
ICS 1C 

</body> 