 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  October 27,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         DECADE Student Council helps grad students with new 'Bridging the Gap' series

</strong>
              
    
                    
On Sept. 23, the DECADE (Diverse Educational Community and Doctoral Experience) Student Council for ICS &amp; Engineering broke the silence on an event titled “Bridging the Gap.” This event was intended to bring students and professors closer together with the emphasis on clear communication skills. For the first time in the series, students had a chance to hear from two well-known and established professors, Enrico Gratton from the Department of Biomedical Engineering and Derek Dunn-Rankin from the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. These professors shared their perspectives on what professors are looking for in graduate students and key elements of student survival during graduate school. 

  
The first part of the session continued with a Q&amp;A on important topics, including communicating across diverse groups, funding and how to deal with unfairness. Discussion continued during a closed session guided by graduate counselor Phong Luong and senior student panelists Sara Sameni, Claudia Ló pez and Julius Edson. 

  
Students also had a chance to hear the other part of the story from their peers. “Attending ‘Bridging the Gap’ was a meaningful and worthwhile experience,” said attendee Phoebe Chua. “Overall, the event was successful in guiding me toward creating an effective work environment.” 

  
This event will be continued as a series. To get more updates please follow us in ICS &amp; Engineering DECADE  Facebook page . The DECADE Student Council is comprised of ICS and engineering graduate students and is an initiative of the Office of Access and Inclusion ( OAI ). 



  Article submitted by DECADE Student Council 
 

                      DECADE Student Council helps grad students with new 'Bridging the Gap' series

    
                &lt; Previous 
                 UCI team awarded $2.9 million by NSF for graduate training in data science, STEM


              
                Next &gt; 
                 UCI makes SuccessfulStudent.org’s list of best Video Game Colleges



             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 