 
	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
     
		News     
	         
		  Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams  
		 
					Posted by  Consuelo Lopez  on December 9, 2015 at 4:37 pm 				 
					
		 We have just categorized around 500 sketches the CrowdDesign team collected in their latest experiment. It took 3h for a crowd of six people to do the job! We all enjoyed pizza after the hard work. 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Thomas Kwak!  
		 
					Posted by  lmartie  on November 17, 2015 at 5:06 pm 				 
					
		 Thomas Kwak is a new UCI Masters student who will be joining the code search team to do his Masters thesis! 
     
    
         
		  We wish Martin Medina well!  
		 
					Posted by  lmartie  on November 1, 2015 at 11:10 pm 				 
					   
		 We are glad to have had Martin and wish him well back home! Martin and Lee were still hard at work on Martin’s last day… they started to look a little weird though. 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Gabriel!  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on June 15, 2015 at 10:58 am 				 
					
		 Gabriel is an undergrad student who will be working on CrowdCode with Arturo, Fabio, and Thomas. 
     
    
         
		  End of Quarter Lunch  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on June 15, 2015 at 10:13 am 				 
					
		 All together to celebrate the end of a very busy quarter . Summer quarter is promising. Many projects going on and lab full of motivated people. 
     
    
         
		  Congratulations Thomas!  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on June 9, 2015 at 5:46 pm 				 
					
		 Thomas accepted a tenure-track position as a Assistant Professor at the George Mason University. 
     
    
         
		  The SDCL in ICSE 2015  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on June 9, 2015 at 5:42 pm 				 
					
		 Thomas presented two papers in ICSE [1][2] and co-organized the second International Workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSISE-2015) André presented a position paper [3] and was part of the panel titled “The Future of Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering”. [1] Borrowing from the crowd: A study of recombination in software design competitions, TD LaToza, M […] 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Iago and Nathan!  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on June 9, 2015 at 5:20 pm 				 
					
		 Iago Moreira and Nathan Martins are joining us for the Summer. Nathan has just finished his one year interchange program in North Dakota State University. Iago is half way through his program in Rochester Institute of Technology. They are both sponsored by the Brazilian Science without Borders program. .. and they are already working with […] 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Edgar!  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on April 16, 2015 at 9:55 pm 				 
					
		 Edgar is a new master student joining the lab. He is currently interested in investigating approaches to crowdsource software design. 
     
    
         
		  Fernando and his team won best presentation at iConference  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on March 28, 2015 at 4:40 pm 				 
					
		 “Racial Violence Archive: Public Information System on Incidents of Violence during the Civil Rights Period” by Fernando Spanghero, Hosub Lee, Michael Bellato, Sowmya Jain,  Roeland Singer-heinze, Ya-Wen Lin, Sunakshi Gupta, and Geoff Ward. The faculty Sponsors were Alfred Kobsa and Geoff Ward. Here’s a teaser: http://owl.li/KPXjN 
     
    
    
		         
              « Previous Page  
              Next Page »  
              
         
                    
     
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 