 Informatics 43 Spring 2009, Code Examples<body>

 

 
Informatics 43 Spring 2009 |
 News  |
 Course Reference  |
 Schedule  |
 Course Project  |
 Code Examples  |
 About Alex 
 

  

 

 Informatics 43 Spring 2009 
   Code Examples 

 

 

  Code examples, from lecture and otherwise 

 Over the course of the quarter, as we work on code examples in lecture or discussion, I'll be providing commented code examples for you.  These examples are mostly to give you clean and well-documented examples of some of the things we cover in lecture (and possibly a few things that we don't, time permitting), so that you can be free in lecture to avoid trying to take detailed notes when we're writing code together, instead concentrating on understanding the process and the bigger-picture concepts at work in the examples. 

   Lecture Date(s) 
     Description 
     Th 5/7 
        Tu 5/12 
      Unit testing with JUnit — including factories and mocks, for simplifying your tests and eliminating external dependencies  
     Th 5/14 
      Serialization in Java, both manually and using Java's built-in serialization mechanism  
      

 

  How to use these examples in Eclipse 

 Here's what you'll want to do in order to pull each example into Eclipse. 

  Each example is presented in a  src  folder that contains all of its source code, arranged into folders to match its package hierarchy. 
   Open your Eclipse workspace.  You might want to use a separate workspace for the code examples, or you might prefer to mix them into the workspace that contains the work you're doing on your projects. 
   Create a new Java project, with any name you'd like.  You'll find that you're much better off with clear project names, so you can find them as you start to accumulate a large number of them.  (If you mix the code examples with your project work, you might want to prefix all of the example projects with a word like  Example , so you can tell the examples apart from your own work at a glance.) 
   Download and unzip the example somewhere temporarily. 
   Copy the  src  folder into the new project's folder within your workspace folder, replacing the old (empty)  src  folder. 
   Right-click the project in Project Explorer in Eclipse and select Refresh. 
  After taking these steps, the example should be available in Eclipse! 

 Note that Eclipse will collapse a large comment that I've written at the top of each .java file, so that you can only see the first line of it.  You'll want to be sure to expand these comments (by clicking the little + next to them) and read them, because that's where a lot of the useful information is. 

 

 

  

</body> 