 News      Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences   Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences            Explore  
    Chair’s Welcome   
	   What is Statistics?   
	   Seminar Series   
	   UCI Center for Statistical Consulting   
	   Contact the Department   
  
   Faculty  
    Faculty Directory   
	   Job Opportunities   
  
   Research   
   Graduate Degrees  
    M.S. &amp; Ph.D. in Statistics   
	   Current Course Listings   
	   Graduate Student Directory   
  
   Undergraduate Degrees  
    B.S. in Data Science   
	   Minor in Statistics   
	   Current Course Listings   
	   Tutoring Resources   
  
      Ph.D. Students Gao and Cruz receive ASA paper awards   
 January 27, 2017   Congratulations to Statistics Ph.D. students  Xu Gao</strong> and  Maricela Cruz</strong> who both recently received best paper awards from the American Statistical Association ( ASA ). Gao was recognized for his paper, “Evolving State-Space Models with Applications to Local Field Potentials.” Cruz was recognized for her paper on healthcare data titled, “A robust interrupted time series model for analyzing complex healthcare intervention data.” They will have the opportunity to present their papers at the Joint Statistical Meetings ( JSM 2017 ) in August 2017. 
 Gao recently  won  the Eastern North American Region (ENAR) International Biometrics Society’s Distinguished Student Paper Award competition in January 2017., while Cruz is a fellow of the prestigious National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship (NSF GRF). 
   Ombao, UCI Space-Time Modeling Group contribute to new  Handbook of Neuroimaging Data Analysis    
 January 4, 2017   Several members of the UC Irvine  Space-Time Modeling Group  contributed to the recent release of the   Handbook of Neuroimaging Data Analysis  , which was published in November 2016 by Chapman and Hall/CRC. Statistics Professor and American Statistical Association Fellow   Hernando Ombao   served as one of the book’s editors, while Chee-Ming Ting, Carolina Euan, Lechuan Hu, Yuxiao Wang and Anna Schroeder were contributing co-authors for the 662-page handbook. In addition to Ombao, the handbook’s other editors were Martin Lindquist form Johns Hopkins University, Wesley Thompson from UC San Diego, and John Aston from the University of Cambridge.  [Read more…]  
   Statistics Ph.D. Students Wang, Gao win ENAR Distinguished Paper Awards   
 January 4, 2017   Two Ph.D. students from the UC Irvine’s Department of Statistics,   Yuxiao Wang </strong> and  Xu Gao</strong>, were recently named winners in the Eastern North American Region (ENAR) International Biometrics Society’s 2017 Distinguished Student Paper Award  competition .  [Read more…]  
   Los Angeles Times: “Why giving people $5 to take a government survey is money well spent” by Jessica Utts   
 October 26, 2016   To the editor: There has been a lot of research on incentives over the years; it is clear that they improve response rates to surveys, that nothing works as well as cash for this purpose, and that incentives often pay for themselves by reducing the number of attempts interviewers have to make to get people to respond. (“ Your tax dollars at work: $5 bribes to take a government survey ,” Oct. 21) 
  Read more at  latimes.com    
   NSF awards Professor Shahbaba, UCI team $250K for big data analysis research   
 July 15, 2016   Associate Professor of Satistics   Babak Shahbaba </strong>, together with co-principal investigators Hongkai Zhao and Jeffrey Streets from UCI’s Department of Mathematics, have received $250,000 from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for their  project , “Theory and practice for exploiting the underlying structure of probability models in big data analysis.” According to Shahbaba, the project aims to “develop a theoretical framework to study underlying structures of statistical models and use this framework in practice to design efficient and scalable computational methods and algorithms for Bayesian inference.”  [Read more…]  
   Stern receives DeGroot Prize for “Bayesian Data Analysis”   
 July 8, 2016   Professor of Statistics  Hal Stern</strong>—together with his coauthors Andrew Gelman, John B. Carlin, David B. Dunson, Aki Vehtari and Donald B. Rubin—has received the  DeGroot Prize  for his book,   Bayesian Data Analysis  .  [Read more…]  
   Dean Stern’s co-led CSAFE cited in White House Impact Report   
 June 28, 2016   The recently-formed  Center for Statistics and Applications in Forensic Evidence  (CSAFE)—co-led by Dean of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences and Professor of Statistics  Hal Stern</strong>—has landed on a  White House Impact Report  that features 100 examples of President Obama’s leadership in science, technology and innovation during his presidency.  [Read more…]  
   Gillen, Ombao named ASA Fellows   
 June 16, 2016   Statistics Professors  Daniel Gillen</strong> and  Hernando Ombao</strong> have been named  Fellows of the American Statistical Association (ASA) , the nation’s preeminent professional statistical society. One of the highest honors in the profession, fellows are recognized “for outstanding professional contributions to and leadership in the field of statistical science,” according the ASA.  [Read more…]  
   WSJ: “Foreign Students Seen Cheating More Than Domestic Ones” (Hancock quoted)   
 June 5, 2016   Statistics Professor  Stacey Hancock</strong> was recently interviewed by  The Wall Street Journal  for a June 5, 2016 article titled “Foreign Students Seen Cheating More Than Domestic Ones.” The in-depth article looks at the rise of alleged cheating by international students at public universities in the United States. Hancock was among several professors who were interviewed from around the country for the article. According to Hancock, a large portion of faculty time is spent trying to ensure academic honesty and deter cheating by putting safeguards in place such as randomized seating and offering multiple versions of a test. 
  View the full story on the  WSJ  website (may require subscription).   [Read more…]  
   Two Statistics Ph.D. students receive honorable mentions in NSF GRFP   
 April 4, 2016   Two Statistics Ph.D. Students,  Chris Galbraith</strong> and  Michelle Nuno</strong>, received honorable mentions in the recent National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program ( NSF GRFP ) Competition. Chris Galbraith’s proposal was “Modeling Individual-Level Event Data via Semi-Parametric Mixture/s” and Michelle Nuno’s proposal was “Statistical Analysis of Multivariate Traits with Repeated Measurements.”  [Read more…]  
  		 Latest News 
		  
				 Ph.D. Students Gao and Cruz receive ASA paper awards 
							 January 27, 2017 
						 
					 
				 Ombao, UCI Space-Time Modeling Group contribute to new  Handbook of Neuroimaging Data Analysis  
							 January 4, 2017 
						 
					 
				 Statistics Ph.D. Students Wang, Gao win ENAR Distinguished Paper Awards 
							 January 4, 2017 
						 
					 
				 Los Angeles Times: “Why giving people $5 to take a government survey is money well spent” by Jessica Utts 
							 October 26, 2016 
						 
					 
				 NSF awards Professor Shahbaba, UCI team $250K for big data analysis research 
							 July 15, 2016 
						 
				   			  News Archive  
		    			 

				 
						   
				 

				 
					  © 2017 UC Regents 
					     Feedback  
					     Privacy Policy  
					  

			 
	  </body> 