 Help Information <body>
   Help information for this website  
     
  Graphical interface   
   
We have four main graphical representations of the maize genome results. 

  Plot regions of similarity of one chromosome with the rest of the genome
  Plot colliear runs between a pair of chromosomes
  Plot results from different maps or methods side-by-side
  Plot an individual collinear run in detail
  

With the exception of the last plot, these images are all clickable to find more details. The user can specify the significance threshold of runs to plot, and also set limits (minimum and maximum) on the number of map elements included in a collinear run.

 
   
  MySQL tables   
   
The results available on this website are from four different maize genetic maps. For each map dataset we have a link to the marker map data we used in our analyses, and the results under different implementations of the LineUp software (FullPermutation, or FastRun, with different  D  values).
   Detailed results  lists every marker pair for every collinear run identified. The table has the format:
   c1  reference chromosome
   c2  compared chromosome
   marker  marker name
   c1_pos  position of the marker on c1
   c2_pos  position of the marker on c2
   block_id  id number for the collinear run (block)
   id  unique id number for every pair listing
     Results overview  lists summary information for each collinear run. There is only one line for each run.
   c1  reference chromosome
   c2  compared chromosome
   len  number of pairs involved in the collinear run
   sum_square  sum of square statistic used for significance calculations
   c1_s  start position of the run on c1
   c1_e  end position of the run on c1
   c2_s  start position of the run on c2
   c2_e  end position of the run on c2
   sig  significance level of the collinear run
   block_id  id number for the collinear run (block). This matches with the block_id in the Detailed Results table
   id  another unique id number for every listing
      
  Installation and running of the software (readme file)      
 To uncompress and expand the file  enter the following on the (UNIX) command line
   tar xzvf lineup.tgz  
 
This includes the files:  
LineUp/lineup.c
LineUp/lineup2mysql.pl
LineUp/lineup2txt.pl
LineUp/lineup.pl
LineUp/lineup_input.pl
LineUp/install.pl
LineUp/README
LineUp/pio99_marker_map
 
The pio_marker_map is a sample dataset, and was used in our analysis.

    
 To install the LineUp program , first change directory into the lineup 
directory, and then enter
 
perl ./install.pl
 

Any error messages will be written to the screen. The gcc compiler gives 
the following known error message, which do not affect the function of 
the program. If you see any other error messages, then there may be a problem.
 
lineup.c: In function `read_data':
lineup.c:271: warning: unknown escape sequence `\)'
lineup.c:279: warning: unknown escape sequence `\)'
lineup.c:290: warning: unknown escape sequence `\)'
 

The install.pl script will create the executable version of the C program, 
and will set some perl variables.
    

The  input format  is a text file with one line per marker name. A line starts 
with the marker name followed by at least one space, and then the map 
position(s) of the marker in brackets in the format 
  
marker (pos chr, pos chr, pos chr)    e.g. 
 
php20554 (322 9)
umc1465 (236.6 2)
mmp20 (84.8 6)
bnl6.32 (968 1)
lim228 (947.2 1)
rz444c (95.4 1, 102.6 6)
umc1197(cat3) (675.4 4)
 
If you already have your map data in a MySQL table you can use the 
lineup_input.pl script to create an input file from the MySQL table. 
You will probably need to edit this script so that the column names 
are correct for your table format.
  
The  ONLY  line you should edit is the following:
  
$st = "SELECT marker,chr,cM  FROM $table";
 
 
replace 'marker' with the name of the column that holds the gene or marker name
 
replace 'chr' with the column that holds the chromosome information
 
replace 'cM' with the column that holds the map position information.
 
Please note that it does not matter if your data are bp positions, 
rank order positions, cM positions, or any other map unit.

    

 To run the program  enter
 
./lineup.pl
 
This is a perl script which provides a more comfortable interface to the 
C program and the results parsers.
 
If you opt to have MySQL output, the results file will end .mysql, and 
you can send this into your mysql database with the command

 
mysql -p databasename 
replacing the databasename and basename.mysql as appropriate.


 
If you opt to have plain text output, there will be two output files
   basename_overview.txt - summary information for each run found
   basename_detail.txt - details of the individual markers in each run
      </body> 