 Informatics 241, Fall 2015<body>
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
   
INF 241 / CompSci 248A      : Introduction to Ubiquitous
Computing     Fall 2015   
  
Professor   
Alfred Kobsa: kobsa@uci 
Hours: after class, or Wed. 2-3pm in 5092 DBH (send email beforehand)   Assistant:   
Hosub  Lee:  hosubl@uci     Meeting Times 
 
MW 3pm-4:20pm
in 1300 DBH    Message board:   https://eee.uci.edu/boards/f15/UbiComp/   Class mailing list : UBICOMP-F15@classes.uci.edu  Team signup:  http://eee.uci.edu/signupsheet/teamsignup     Note : These
are guidelines intended to help students plan their work in this
course. However, the instructor reserves the right to make changes to
this syllabus over the course of the quarter.       
Overview  
from UCI Catalogue 
The "disappearing computer" paradigm. Differences to the desktop
computing model: applications, interaction in augmented environments,
security, alternate media, small operating systems, sensors, and
embedded systems design.  Evaluation
by project work and class participation .    Policies  
  Add/drop : Electronic Add/Drop only. Standard University time
lines apply.    Attendance : Students are responsible for material that is
disseminated during class. If you miss class, please arrange beforehand
with a friend to get notes/handouts for you. If you know you are going
to miss something important, contact the instructor beforehand. It's
much easier to accommodate planned absences.
If you send an excuse after missing a class, please provide
documentation. Students are responsible for all material taught in this
course. If you
join the class later in the quarter, you are expected to complete all
missed work immediately.
   Sick Policy : If you find that you are unable to make it to a
scheduled event (class, exam, presentation, etc.) due to sickness,
please get some documentation from a health care provider to assist us
in maintaining fairness to the other students in the class. In the
absence of such documentation, please contact the staff as soon as you
realize that you are going to miss a scheduled event. Generally
sicknesses will be treated on a case by case basis. We will accommodate
you as best as we can depending on the circumstances.    Respect : This class will involve discussion of topics on which
you and your classmates may have differences in opinion. Please be
respectful of others at all times.    Academic Honesty : Please familiarize yourself with the latest  UCI
academic honesty policy  . The consequences of academic dishonesty
are not worth the risks.    Students with Disabilities or Special Needs :     see     here 
for accommodations that can be made    Technology in Class : Please turn off all mobile
phones/pagers/etc. before the beginning of each class. Please do not
use notebook computers or any other technology during class for any
purpose not directly relating to this class.    Web Page, Readings, and Assignments : The web page for the class
is subject to update. Check it frequently and be sure to refresh /
reload the web pages when you browse them. Please follow the
assignments exactly. If you need clarification, ask before the
assignment is due. See tips on     efficient
reading  .   Course announcements  will be
sent to your UCI email account, hence check it regularly. If you prefer
to read your email on another account, you should     forward your Email
to your preferred account  .   Late Assignments  wii be marked down.     Course Mechanics and Grading  
  Grading :
 
    
    Reading Summaries at Beginning of 3 Class Meetings: 10%   
    Leading Discussion: 10%     (group grade)     
    Attendance/Participation in Other Discussions: 20%   
  
    Final Project: 50% (group grade)  
        
        Summary/References: 5%   
        Interim Presentation: 10%   
        Paper: 25%  
          Video
+ Madness Speech: 10%  
         

    Peer Reviewing: 10%  
 
Some of the grading will be done by peers. Group grades will be the
same for everyone unless vetoed.     Readings : Each week there will be several articles, videos,
or other pieces of content assigned. You should read/view the items
before coming to class on the day that they are listed. You may need to
be on campus, or     logged in via VPN  , to access
some of these materials without paying for them.   
  The required book for this class is John Krumm, ed. (2009):
Ubiquitous Computing Fundamentals. CRC Press.         Hardcover ,
 Kindle ,
 Google
Play  ,     Reserve 
in Ayala Library 
    
   
 Reading Summaries : At the beginning of thee classes you will be
asked to write a one-paragraph summary of one or more recent
readings/videos. These reading summaries will not be announced. There
are no makeups for missed summaries without a doctor's note or other
clear evidence of an excusable absence.
   Leading Discussion : Your team is being asked to lead discussion
at one class meeting during this course. Here are some  tips
on how to lead a discussion . Your grade will be based on the
following criteria: 1) Articulates author's argument correctly and
completely; 2) Identifies nuances of author's argument; 4) Poses
thoughtful, open-ended questions or creative exercises to the class; 5)
Guides discussion to important points; 6) Maintains control of the
classroom.    Class Participation : A large part of this course is based on
discussion of the topics. Your grade will be based in part on your
attendance, attention, and participation in class discussions.    Final Project : Working in teams of 4-5 students, you will engage
in a ubicomp project. This project may focus on any topic of mutual
interest to the members of the group. It could involve implementing a
novel ubicomp system, evaluating an existing ubicomp system, or some
other project relevant to the course. If you are uncertain of what kind
of project to pursue, I encourage you to think about personalized
services enabled by building sensors, or technical privacy protections
in IoT environments. There will be two interim deliverables, and two
final deliverables. The interim deliverables are:
   a 1-page summary of your project idea including tentative
software and hardware needs (and which of those you can meet
yorselves). This one-pager should be accompanied by a list of
20 relevant references with DOIs or URLs, of which many should be from
the Pervasive and at least some from the Ubicomp conference. Upload one
document per team  here .  
    a 7-8 minute presentation about your progress to date.  
 
Your final deliverables are:
  a 4-page academic paper, appropriate for submission as  research-in-progress to the 2026
IEEE PerCom Conference . One paper per  team . You are expected to
cite an appropriate selection of the academic literature in your paper.
The submission deadline is  November
27 . 
    a 1-3 minute video describing your project (One video per  team .) 
   a 1 minute "madness" talk that summarizes your research goals and
your main accomplishments.  
  Peer Reviewing : The class will be performing a "peer review"
process as part of the final project evaluation. Each student will be
asked to review the papers written by two other  teams . In addition,
students will be asked to review their own paper using the same
criteria. In writing your reviews, please be rigorous and kind; the
goal is to help your fellow-students make better work, and want to work
more.   
Assignments and Readings must be completed BEFORE the class for which
they are due.    Syllabus:            
       
          Click
at calender entries to see details, such as readings and links to
dropboxes and podcasts         
           Subscribe
to this calendar in your own calendaring system, using the URL  https://www.google.com/calendar/ical/u5uprtj1hs691ov350rmgbi5vc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics     
           Make
sure to switch on "refresh" to receive updates automatically, and allow
reminders :)   
           
              
    
CREDITS: much of the intellectual content of this class is owed to
previous editons by Professors Bill Tomlinson and Don Patterson.  
 
      
</body> 