 Sixth Homework<body>
  
 
          
 
 This assignment is due on Monday, February
24.  
 
  (a)   Take the   Button2  
class we went over last Thursday (adapted from  Bruce Eckel's Thinking in Java, third edition )
and change it as follows:  
  
 Make the text field display a counter that
starts at zero.  
   
 Make one button say "Increment";
when you click it, the counter is increased by one.  
   
 Make the other button say "Decrement";
when you click it, the counter is decreased by one.  
   
 Add another button called "Reset"
that sets the counter to zero.  
  
 See    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/h22/hw/Button2.java   
for the version of the     Button2  
code we used in class.  
 
 For some extra credit, which you absolutely
may not attempt until you finish the rest of this assignment (come on now,
GUIs are fun, but no dessert until you eat your vegetables!), take a look
at Eckel's text (try the "Catalog of Swing Components" section
of Chapter 14, Creating Windows &amp; Applets) to get an idea of some of
the other components you can create.  Then add some bells and whistles to
your counter:  Some simple possibilities are counting by twos (or a user-specified
increment, possibly specified by a slider), highlighting particular values
(e.g., values evenly divisible by 10), or allowing the user to specify starting
or reset values.  
 
  (b)   Design and implement a class DVD,
which has the following 14 fields:  title, studio, pending release date,
status (e.g., out or released, discontinued, pending), sound, versions,
price, rating, year, genre, aspect ratio, UPC (universal product code),
release date, and ID number.  The file    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/h22/hw/DVD.txt   
contains data for about 25,000 DVDs (the original source of this file is
   http://hometheaterinfo.com/dvdlist.htm   ).
 Note that the first line contains the field names.  
 
  (b.1)   Your DVD class should have conventional
getter and setter methods for each field.    
 
  (b.2)   You should also have a constructor
that takes a single string (a line of information about the DVD, in the
format of the input file listed above) and extracts from it the field values,
creating a new DVD object appropriately.  The data file contains a single
line for each DVD; you can read that line into a string and then call this
constructor. Parsing these strings requires a little bit of attention:  
  
 In each string, the 14 fields of DVD information
are separated from one another by commas.  Some fields have null values;
they are represented in the input by two commas with nothing in between
(or by a comma at the end of the string).  
   
 Most of the fields are strings, surrounded
by double-quote marks (and where a double-quoted string  contains 
a double-quote mark, two double-quote marks appear in a row).  When you
store these string values, of course you should not store the surrounding
double-quote marks (and any internal double-quote marks should not be doubled
in the stored version as they were in the input).  
   
 The price field appears with a dollar sign
and no quotation marks.  Store it as an integer number of cents.  
   
 The pending release date field is null if
the status isn't pending; this field and the other release date field,
when they aren't null, contain a date and time (in the format 2/14/03
12:00, not enclosed in quotation marks).  You may store each date/time value
as a single string.  
   
 The ID number field is either null or an integer;
store this field as an integer with null values as zero.  
  
  (b.3)   You should also have a toString
method that produces from a DVD object a string in the same form as the
original data.  
 
  (b.4)   Write a simple driver program
that reads lines from the input file, creates DVD objects, and writes lines
back to a new text file.  You should eventually test your program on the
entire input file, but of course you can use just a small portion of it
as you're working.  
 
  (c)   For the next part of this assignment,
you will design and implement a "bag" of objects.  A bag (or multiset)
is a collection of objects, each with a string as its key, in which the
order isn't important (like a set) but the number of times each item
occurs  is  important (unlike a set).  You might use a bag, for example,
in an automated building entry system where you look up each entrant and
keep a count of how many times that person has passed through the door;
you might also use one to support a web site that counts votes for a favorite
song or book.  
 
 Your bag will implement the interface described
below.  You will write two classes that implement the Bag interface, one
class using a binary search tree and the other using a hash table.  For
the hash table class, you will experiment with different hash functions
and compare their results.  You will also write one or more simple driver
programs to read in the data specified below and insert it into your various
Bags.    
 
 For the hash table version, you will implement
five alternative hash functions.  Then you will hash each set of data using
each of the five hash functions, producing statistics on the effectiveness
of each combination.  [You may choose to parameterize your choice of hash
function (and of data file), combining all your tests into one single run
of the program.  You may also recompile the class and run the test separately
with each hash function and each data set.]  Finally you will write a brief
summary of your findings, describing which functions worked best and worst
for which data.  
 
  (c.1:  the Bag interface)   A bag has
the operations described below; the behavior of the classes that implement
this interface is also described.  
 
 Constructor--Creates an empty Bag.  If an
argument is specified, the binary search tree version ignores it but the
hash table version uses that argument as the table size.  (For a little
extra credit, make your hash table constructor use as the table size a prime
number greater than or equal to the argument.)    
 
  isEmpty   --Return
true if the Bag contains no elements.  (Implement this so that it works
in constant time.)    
 
  makeEmpty   --Remove
all the items stored in the Bag.    
 
  insert   --Take
a string (the key) and an object as arguments and insert the object into
the Bag (according to the key).    
 
  find   --Take
a string (the key) as an argument and return a reference to the object with
that key if it's present in the Bag (or null if it's not present).    
 
  delete   --Take
a string (the key) as an argument and remove from the Bag one object with
that key (if it's present).  (E.g., if you insert objects with keys
A, B, A, C, and B, and then delete A, the table will contain A, C, and two
Bs.)    
 
  totalElements   --Return
the total number of elements currently stored in the Bag.  (E.g., if you
insert A, B, A, C, and B,      totalElements   
should return 5.)  Implement this so that it works in constant time.    
 
  uniqueElements   --Return
the number of unique elements currently stored in the Bag.  (E.g., if you
insert A, B, A, C, and B,      uniqueElements   
should return 3.)  Implement this so that it works in constant time.    
 
  printStats   --Print
statistics that show how evenly elements are distributed in the Bag.  This
function will produce different results for each implementation.  
 
--The binary search tree version should print out some indication of whether,
or how well, the tree is balanced.  
 
--The hash table version should print one line for each index (i.e., each
bin) in the hash table; on that line should be the index, the total number
of items in that bin, the number of unique items in that bin, and an asterisk
for each unique item in that bin.  For example, suppose we have a HashTable
of size 3 in which the following items are inserted:       A
B a c 3 9 D E D 4 9 5 7 5   .  Suppose
further that all upper-case letters hash to bin 0, all lower-case letters
hash to bin 1, and all digits hash to bin 2.  The output of      printStats   
for this table might look like this:    
 
  0.  5  4 ****
 
1.  2  2 **
 
2.  7  5 *****   
 
  (c.2:  binary search tree details) 
 Your binary search tree should be a simple (unbalanced) binary search tree.
 You may use as a guide the Scheme code at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/h22/hw/bst.scm   ,
as well as any code in Goodrich's text.  Note that even though the order
of the items isn't important to the Bag class, you will need to compare
strings internally to construct your binary search tree.  
 
  (c.3: hash table details)   Your hash
table should resolve collisions by linear chaining, as described in class
and in Goodrich's text.  
 
  (c.4: hash functions)   The      Insert   
and      Find   
operations must (of course) use a function that computes a hash code from
the key field of the data.  This hash function is critical to the performance
of your hash table, since you'll lose the performance advantages of
hashing if your data are not distributed evenly (i.e., randomly) throughout
the table.  You should code each of the hash functions listed below.  (Where
a function speaks of a character's ASCII code, you may use any numeric
value that's unique for every character.)  
 
 * the sum of the ASCII codes of each character
of the key, mod the table size  
 
 * the product of the ASCII codes of each character
of the key, mod the table size  
 
 * the product of the ASCII codes of the first,
fifth, ninth, thirteenth, seventeenth, and twenty-third characters of the
key, mod the table size  
 
 * the hash function given on page 346 of the
Goodrich text  
 
 * at least one other hash function of your
own design (which may be a variation of one of the functions described above)  
 
  (c.5: experimental runs and input data) 
 Write simple driver programs to read the two data sets below, insert them
into a bag, and observe and analyze their performance:  
 
 * The DVD objects described in part  (b) 
above.  Use the DVD's title as the key.  There are about 40 titles that
aren't unique.  Your bag should count those as multiple occurrences
of the same DVD object.  (For some extra credit, you can create from each
title a "main title" field.  You'll notice that in the DVD
list, multiple versions of the same work are distinguished by adding to
the title some extra information like "(Animated)" or "(Live
Action)."  You can create a "main title" by finding the first
character of the title that isn't a letter, upper or lower case, a digit,
a space, or an apostrophe; everything from the start of the string up to
that point could be the main title.  If you use this main title as the key,
you will produce more duplicate keys for your bag to count.)  
 
 * Any list of at least 2000 English words.
 There is a file of many words available at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/h22/hw/wordlist.txt   .  
 
 Ask yourself this question and check with
someone if you don't know the answer:  What is the problem with these
two input files when you're testing the performance of your BST-based
Bag?  (Hint:  To make your life easier, we have provided these two files:
    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/h22/hw/DVD-random.txt   
and    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/h22/hw/wordlist-random.txt   .)  
 
  (c.6: extra credit)   For a little extra
credit, try one or both of these:  
 
 * Run your tests and experiments on a third
set of test data that you download from the Web, including the results in
your written analysis.  Your data should contain at least 5000 items.  Be
sure to supply the URL where you found the data.  
 
 * So far, we have been concerned with how
effective our hash functions are--that is, how evenly they distribute the
data throughout the table.  For this part, you will concentrate on the efficiency
of the function itself--that is, how long it takes to compute the hash value
from the key.  You will measure how long each of your hash functions takes
to hash 10,000 data items, including a description of your results in your
written analysis.  You should write a separate driver for this task that
just reads the data and calls the hash function, because you don't want
to skew the results by including the time it takes to insert the data into
the table.  Produce timing results for each of the different hash functions
on each of the different sets of test data, to see if there are any efficiency
differences that depend on the characteristics of the data.  
 
  (d)   Write an interpreter for the programming
language Facile 2.0, which is like the original version of Facile except
for these two enhancements:  
  
 Long variable names.  Everywhere a single-letter
variable could occur in an original Facile program, Facile 2.0 accepts a
string of one or more alphabetic characters (A-Z).  You'll need to build
a symbol table (as either a binary search tree or a hash table, similar
to your Bag implementations from part  (c) ; you may use your implementations
or a class from the Java library) to store each variable and its value and
to retrieve the value when an already-defined variable appears in the code.  
   
 Statement labels:  Perhaps the most painful
part of programming in original Facile is having to count statements to
get the statement numbers correct in goto, gosub, and if statements.  In
Facile 2.0, the programmer may include statement label lines.  Each statement
label is a variable name (as above) followed by a colon, as shown below.
 (Note that if the first word on a line isn't a statement keyword known
to Facile (like LET or GOSUB), it's a label.)  When your program finds
a label, it adds the label to the symbol table with the value of the statement/line
number where the label occurred.  When a label occurs in a goto, gosub,
or if statement, the interpreter looks up the label in the symbol table
and substitutes its value.  An example appears below.   
    LET N 5  
    LET F 1  
    GOSUB FACT  
    PRINT F  
    END  
    FACT:  
    IF N &gt; 1 THEN KEEPGOING  
    RETURN  
    KEEPGOING:  
    MULT F N  
    SUB N 1  
    GOSUB FACT  
    RETURN  
    .   
   
  (e)   This part is extra credit, and
it is not due with the rest of the assignment.  It will be due in a couple
of weeks, but we wanted to give you the chance to start thinking about it
now.  Either individually or in pairs, add a graphical user interface to
one of the programs you've written this quarter:  The restaurant database
program, the restaurant ordering program, the bank accounts, or the Facile
interpreter.  Think about the design before you start coding, and develop
incrementally:  That is, add a little bit at a time so that if you don't
have time to implement that one last feature, at least you'll have the
previous features working and ready to turn in.    
 
  What to turn in:     
 
 Turn in your Java files via Checkmate for
parts  (a)  through  (d) .  Also turn in a prose document with
part  (c)  that gives your analysis of the hash functions you tested.  
 
 GUI counter problem written by David G. Kay,
Winter 2003 to build on code from Bruce Eckel's  Thinking in Java,
Third Edition. 
  DVD class problem written by David G. Kay, Winter 2003.
 
Hash table implementation assignment written by David G. Kay, Winter 1997
and modified by David G. Kay, Spring 1997 and Fall 1998. Bags and binary
search trees included by David G. Kay, Winter 1999 with residual revisions
by David G. Kay, Spring 1999 and Winter 2003.
 
Facile enhancements written by David G. Kay, Winter 2003, to build on the
Facile lab assignment by Alex Thornton.  
 </body> 