  

 

  Pouria   Pirzadeh  

     

 Department of Computer Science 

 University of California, Irvine 

 Email:  pouria  at-sign  uci  dot  edu  

     

 I received my PhD in computer
science at the University of California, Irvine under supervision of professor  Michael Carey .    As a member of Information Systems
Group ( ISG ), I have been mainly working on
the  Apache  AsterixDB   project. 

     

 Research Interests 

 I am interested in building and
optimizing systems for storing, processing and managing intensive amounts of
data, along with performance evaluation of Big Data systems and Big Data
benchmarking.  

     

 Projects 

    Apache  AsterixDB     : A new,
full-function BDMS (Big Data Management System) with a rich set of features to
store, manage, and analyze large volumes of semi-structured data.     

     

     Hyracks    :   A data-parallel runtime platform
designed to perform data-processing tasks on large amounts of data using large
clusters of shared-nothing commodity machines. 

     

 Publications 

     BigFUN     : A
Performance Study of Big Data Management System Functionality     .     

 -    In
Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Big Data, 2015. 

 -     Pouria     Pirzadeh  ,
Michael J. Carey, Till  Westmann . 

     

     AsterixDB     : A
Scalable, Open Source BDMS    .    

 -    In
Proceedings of the Very Large Database (VLDB), Volume 7, 2015. 

 -  (Alphabetically Ordered)   Sattam   Alsubaiee , Yasser  Altowim ,  Hotham   Altwaijry , Alexander  Behm ,  Vinayak   Borkar ,
 Yingyi  Bu, Michael J. Carey,  Inci 
 Cetindil ,  Madhusudan   Cheelangi ,  Khurram   Faraaz , Eugenia  Gabrielova , Raman
Grover, Zachary  Heilbron , Young- Seok 
Kim, Chen Li,  Guangqiang  Li,  Ji 
 Mahn  Ok, Nicola  Onose ,   Pouria     Pirzadeh  ,  Vassilis   Tsotras ,  Rares   Vernica ,  Jian   Wen , Till  Westmann . 

     

     Algebricks     : A Data
Model-Agnostic Compiler Backend for Big Data Languages    .    

 -    In
Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD/SIGOPS Symposium on Cloud Computing ( SoCC ), 2015. 

 -     Vinayak   Borkar ,  Yingyi  Bu, Preston Carman, Nicola  Onose ,
Till  Westmann ,   Pouria     Pirzadeh  , Michael J. Carey,  Vassilis  J.  Tsotras . 

     

    Performance
Evaluation of Range Queries in Key-Value Stores   . 

 -    Journal of Grid Computing, Volume 10-1, 2012. 

 -      Pouria     Pirzadeh  ,
Junichi  Tatemura , Oliver Po,  Hakan 
 Hacigumus . 

     

    ASTERIX: An Open Source System for Big
Data Management and Analysis   .     

 -    In Proceedings of the Very Large Databases (VLDB), Volume 5,
2012. 

 -  (Alphabetically Ordered)   Sattam   Alsubaiee , Yasser  Altowim ,  Hotham   Altwaijry , Alexander  Behm ,  Vinayak   Borkar ,
 Yingyi  Bu, Michael Carey, Raman Grover, Zachary  Heilbron , Young- Seok  Kim, Chen
Li, Nicola  Onose ,   Pouria     Pirzadeh  ,  Rares 
 Vernica ,  Jian   Wen . 

     

    Performance
Evaluation of Range Queries in Key-Value Stores   .     

 -    In Proceedings of the IEEE International Symposium on
Parallel and Distributed Processing (IPDPS), 2011. 

 -      Pouria     Pirzadeh  ,
Junichi  Tatemura ,  Hakan   Hacigumus . 

     

    XAR: An
Integrated Framework for Free Text Information Extraction        

 - In proceedings of World
Congress on Computer Science and Information Engineering (CSIE), 2009. 

 -     Naveen   Ashish ,
 Sharad   Mehrotra ,   Pouria     Pirzadeh .    

       

    Incorporating Integrity Constraints in Uncertain
Databases        

 -    CoRR :arXiv:0907:1632 , 2009. 

 -     Naveen   Ashish ,
 Sharad   Mehrotra ,   Pouria     Pirzadeh .    

       

 Useful Resources 

   ·      
       AsterixDB     
benchmarking client        

   ·      
       SocialGen         

   ·      
       BigFUN      micro-benchmark for  AsterixDB         

   ·      
      TPCH on  AsterixDB       

 

</body> 