 Chimera 2.0 Tutorial: Storing a Website via Export<body>
 

 Storing a Website by Export and Importing a Website 

   
One thing you can do with Chimera 2.0 is to export the databases of a 
Chimera Website or import them.  This allows you to make files which 
show the state of the various databases at a Chimera Website.
 

 
The file generated for the databases are in XML and can be
exported or imported via the Hyperweb Server or by the Chimera API.
XML files may then be manipulated by other XML tools inorder to 
modify or express the data into other systems.
The databases which may be accessed via export/import are composed of 
three kinds of databases:
 

  A Viewer-Object-View database which is composed of the Viewers, Objects,
	and Views registered at the Chimera Website 
      A Hyperweb database for each web which contains the Anchors and 
	Links which make up that web.
      A Website database composed of the V-O-V database of a 
	Chimera Website and all the Hyperweb databases for each web at the
	Chimera Website.
    These databases are of Chimera concepts.  You can learn more about
what these concepts are by reading the 
 Chimera 2.0 Overview. 
 

 Exporting a Website 

  There are three different databases which can be exported.  These
include the VOV, the hyperweb, and the website.  In this example, you 
will be exporting a website.
 

  To Export a website, you select the Export Website command from the 
Hyperweb Server.  This creates an XML file containing the databases 
of the site in a form which can be read by other Hyperweb Servers.
 

 
Once you select the Export Website command you, it will ask you to name and 
place the file.  Place it anywhere you wish.
 

 Importing a Website 

  You may Import a Website by loading it into the Hyperweb Server
by selecting the Import Website command from the Import menu.
 

  The command will ask you to select the file to Import.  Choose the
proper XML file to Import on your site.  For now Import the 
file you Exported.
 

</body> 