 <body> "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN\"&gt;

 
UCI Machine Learning Repository: Data Sets   
		                Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems   
	 
	 
		 
		 About  
		 Citation Policy  
		 Donate a Data Set  
		 Contact 
		 

		  
		   Repository  
		  Web  
		          
		   
		 
		


		    View ALL Data Sets    
		  
      

			    Browse Through:         Default Task  -  Undo 	 
		 
	     Classification   (27)   Regression   (12)    Clustering    (12)   Other   (3) 	 
		 
	     Attribute Type  	 
		 
	     Categorical   (0)   Numerical   (9)   Mixed   (0) 	 
		 
	     Data Type   -  Undo 	 
		 
	     Multivariate   (20)   Univariate   (1)   Sequential   (7)    Time-Series    (12)   Text   (7)   Domain-Theory   (4)   Other   (0)   
		 
	     Area  -  Undo 	 
		 
	     Life Sciences   (0)   Physical Sciences   (1)    CS / Engineering    (12)   Social Sciences   (0)   Business   (3)   Game   (0)   Other   (4) 	 
		 
	     # Attributes 	 
		 
	     Less than 10   (3)   10 to 100   (3)   Greater than 100   (4) 	 
		 
	     # Instances   
		    
		 Less than 100   (0)   100 to 1000   (1)   Greater than 1000   (9) 	 
		 
	     Format Type 	 
		 
	     Matrix   (9)   Non-Matrix   (3) 	 
		 
	   

	 

     12  Data Sets  
			   Table View    List View   
		       1.   Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) Recognition Using Binary Sensors  : This dataset comprises information regarding the ADLs performed by two users on a daily basis in their 
own homes.    2.   Character Trajectories  : Multiple, labelled samples of pen tip trajectories recorded whilst writing individual characters. All samples are from the same writer, for the purposes of primitive extraction. Only characters with a single pen-down segment were considered.  3.   Daily and Sports Activities  : The dataset comprises motion sensor data of 19 daily and sports activities each performed by 8 subjects in their own style for 5 minutes. Five Xsens MTx units are used on the torso, arms, and legs.
  4.   Dataset for ADL Recognition with Wrist-worn Accelerometer  : Recordings of 16 volunteers performing 14 Activities of Daily Living (ADL) while carrying a single wrist-worn tri-axial accelerometer.  5.   Educational Process Mining (EPM): A Learning Analytics Data Set  : Educational Process Mining data set is built from the recordings of 115 subjects' activities through a logging application while learning with an educational simulator.  6.   ElectricityLoadDiagrams20112014  : This data set contains electricity consumption of 370 points/clients.
  7.   Gas Sensor Array Drift Dataset at Different Concentrations  : This archive contains 13910 measurements from 16 chemical sensors exposed to 6 different gases at various concentration levels.  8.   Heterogeneity Activity Recognition  : The Heterogeneity Human Activity Recognition (HHAR) dataset from Smartphones and Smartwatches is a dataset devised to benchmark human activity recognition algorithms (classification, automatic data segmentation, sensor fusion, feature extraction, etc.) in real-world contexts; specifically, the dataset is gathered with a variety of different device models and use-scenarios, in order to reflect sensing heterogeneities to be expected in real deployments.  9.   Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones  : Human Activity Recognition database built from the recordings of 30 subjects performing activities of daily living (ADL) while carrying a waist-mounted smartphone with embedded inertial sensors.  10.   Open University Learning Analytics dataset  : Open University Learning Analytics Dataset contains data about courses, students and their interactions with Virtual Learning Environment for seven selected courses and more than 30000 students.  11.   Taxi Service Trajectory - Prediction Challenge, ECML PKDD 2015  : An accurate dataset describing trajectories performed by all the 442 taxis running in the city of Porto, in Portugal.
  12.   UJIIndoorLoc-Mag  : The UJIIndoorLoc-Mag is an indoor localization database to test Indoor Positioning System that rely on Earth's magnetic field variations.      
      Supported By:  
           
           In Collaboration With:  
           
   
 
 About   || 
 Citation Policy   || 
 Donation Policy   || 
 Contact   || 
 CML 
 
 


</body> 