 Project RADICLE Website 

 

  RADICLE     

  Risk Aware Data Management in Cloud
Environments     

  Donald Bren School of Computer Science    

  University of California, Irvine     



 

 

       

  Motivation     

  As data management systems become more distributed, risk of
data loss arises whenever data migrates from more secure environments to those
that are less secure. One way to mitigate such risk is to identify components
that are vulnerable, and fortify them with security solutions. Nonetheless,
such actions cannot prevent attacks carried out by insiders. For example, a
malicious database administrator would still have access to the sensitive data
within the databases he or she manages. In other instances, performance
overheads involved might prevent usage of strong security practices, such as  encrypting all sensitive data in motion or
at rest . Hence, new security solutions need to be developed as data
management systems become more distributed and migrate to the cloud.    

       

  Overview    

  In this project, we take an alternate/complementary
approach towards securing query processing for database workloads. We
acknowledge the fact that  different
system components/environments through which data moves during query processing
offer different security guarantees . Instead of attempting to prevent or
thwart attacks, we design risk aware query processing techniques that control
how data flows through different components (in particular from more secure to
less secure ones) such that the risk of loss of data, while not entirely eliminated,
is substantially reduced. The major intuition behind our approaches is that
migration/motion of data during query processing is primarily guided by
efficiency concerns (such as, how much data to cache, how to access the data,
via index or table scan etc.). Therefore, varying the characteristics of data
movement through these components exposes a tradeoff between risk and
performance.     

  For instance, query processing on a typical database
server requires that data be brought into memory and be kept in memory (cached)
for as long as possible to prevent expensive disk I/ Os .
Indeed, given the large amounts of data involved, often the primary
optimization that database  servers  support is
minimizing the number of disk I/ Os . However, longer
the data resides in memory, larger the risk that it can be stolen through a
variety of  memory scraping  attacks.
Instead, an alternate strategy like  toss-immediately
after use  may incur performance degradation, but significantly reduce risk
of data loss. Likewise, consider  an  public-private
hybrid cloud setup, where and organization utilizes the public cloud resources
during peak demands to offload some of the work. Again, limiting the queries
and data offloaded to the (less-trusted) public cloud can limit exposure risks.
    

  Given the potential tradeoffs between performance and
risks of data loss, we postulate the problem of risk aware query processing
wherein the goal changes from purely attempting to minimize costs (and hence
maximize performance) to that of achieving a balance between performance and
exposure risks. Given the above postulation, multi-criteria optimization
techniques can be employed to achieve a balance between performance and
exposure risk. Two specific settings could be: (a) optimize for performance
while ensuring that exposure risks are constrained, or alternatively, (b)
constrain the additional overhead of query processing, while minimizing the
risk of data loss.     

  The mechanisms we will design will address risk
management at both the query optimization level, as well as, at the level of
redesign of individual relational operators (such as joins, selections, etc.)
so as to limit exposure risks. Additionally, we will explore data and workload
partitioning methods for the hybrid cloud models that minimize exposure risks
while ensuring performance goals.     

       

  Project Funding     

  This project is partially supported by grants from  NSF  and NEC Labs, USA.     

 



 

    Main Page     
    News     
    People     
    Publications     
    Related Links      
        

 

 



 

 

  © RADICLE |  Design
by Cirkuit Networks, Inc. Modified by Kerim Yasin Oktay, ICS      

 

 

 

</body> 