 Glossary of Terms Outside Computer Science<body>

 

 
Glossary of Terms Outside Computer Science
 

  
    Home 
 
   
    Foundations home 
 
   
 
 Sets   Relations   Correspondences   Ordered Sets   Lattices   Graphs   Powersets   Binary Strings   Logic   AIA   Greek   
   
 
 Glossary   Abstracts   Argument   Glossaries   Inquiry Cycle   Legal Relations   Presentations   
   
 
 Elicitation   Glossaries   Goals   i*   SCR   Tracing   
   
 
 Alloy   MSCs   Regular Exprs.   
   
 
 Design Patterns   Javadoc   Java Packages   Java Types   
   
 
 (X)HTML   XML Schemas   XSLT   
 



 
























 
My work, and requirements engineering,
sits on the boundary between computer science
and the rest of the world,
and terms from other areas
can be useful, interesting, and thought-provoking. 
Definitions from a variety of sources, mostly the
  OED  . 
 


    Table of Contents      a na phora  
                   a po dosis  
                   a po strophe  
                   bi jec tion  
                   chi as mus  
                   ca ta phora  
                   con cor dance  
     
       coordinate term  
                   en do phora  
                    ep isode  
                   goal  
                   herme neu tics  
                   holonym  
                   hy po mnema  
     
       hypernym  
                   hyponym  
                   lemmatize  
                   merism  
                   meronym  
                    met aphor  
                   me ton ymy  
     
       on tol ogy  
                   pe ric ope  
                   pe riph rasis  
                    pol yseme  
                   propar ox ytone  
                   prosopo poe ia  
                    prot asis  
     
        sat isfice  
                   sce nar io  
                    sim ile  
                   syl lep sis  
                   sy nec doche  
                   tele ol ogy  
                    zeug ma  
     
       a na phora 
   
     1. a.  Rhet. 
    The repetition of the same word or phrase in several successive clauses. 
   
     1589  P UTTENHAM   Eng. Poesie  (Arb.)
    208 Anaphora, or the Figure of Report..as thus: 
    To thinke on death it is a miserie,
    To think on life it is a vanitie: 
    To thinke on the world verily it is,
    To thinke that heare man hath no perfit blisse. 
   
   b. Gram. 
    The use of a word which refers to, or is a substitute for,
    a preceding word or group of words. 
   
   
      
   
    Cf.
     cataphora ,
     endophora . 
   
   
     1933  B LOOMFIELD   Language  xvi. 266
    The word  one ..replaces  a  with anaphora of the noun
    when no other modifier is present (Here are some apples; take one). 
   
   [ UKy Classics ]
   
   
    1.a. [Churchill] We shall not flag or fail. 
    We shall go on to the end. 
    We shall fight in France, we shall fight on the seas and oceans,
    we shall fight with growing confidence and growing strength in the air,
    we shall defend our island, whatever the cost may be,
    we shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds,
    we shall fight in the fields and in the streets,
    we shall fight in the hills. 
    We shall never surrender. 
   
   

   a po dosis 
   
    The concluding clause of a sentence,
    as contrasted with the introductory clause or
      protasis  ; 
    now usually restricted to the consequent clause in a conditional sentence,
    as ‘If thine enemy hunger,  feed him .’
   

   a po strophe 
   
     1.  Rhet. 
    A figure of speech, by which a speaker or writer
    suddenly stops in his discourse,
    and turns to address pointedly some person or thing, either present or absent; 
    an exclamatory address. 
    (As explained by Quintilian, apostrophe was directed to a person present; 
    modern use has extended it to the absent or dead
    (who are for the nonce supposed to be present); 
    but it is by no means confined to these, as sometimes erroneously stated.)
   
    Cf.  prosopopoeia . 
   
   

   bi jec tion 
   
    A mapping that is both injective [one-to-one]
    and surjective [onto]. 
   

   chi as mus 
   
    A grammatical figure by which the order of words
    in one of two parallel clauses is inverted in the other. 
   
     1871  A. S. W ILKINS   Cicero agst.  Cat. 138  note,
    Frequentia sustentatur, alitur otio. 
    This is a good instance of the..figure called chiasmus..in which
    the order of words in the first clause is inverted in the second. 
   
  
   

   ca ta phora 
   
    The use of a word which refers to or substitutes for
    a following word or group or words. 
    E.g.  Take one, these apples are delicious. 
   
   
    Cf.
     anaphora ,
     endophora . 
   

   con cor dance 
   
    † 6.  A citation of parallel passages in a book,
     esp.  in the Bible.   Obs. 
   
     1538  C OVERDALE   N.T . title-p.,
    With a true Concordaunce in the margent. 
   
   
     b.  An alphabetical arrangement of
    the principal words contained in a book,
    with citations of the passages in which they occur. 
    These were first made for the Bible; 
    hence Johnson's explanation
    ‘A book which shows in how many texts of scripture
    any word occurs’. 
    Orig. in  pl.  (med.L.  concordantiæ ),
    each group of parallel passages being properly a concordantia. 
    This is sometimes denominated a verbal concordance
    as distinguished from a real concordance
    which is an index of subjects or topics. 
   
   
     1387  T REVISA   Higden  (Rolls) VIII. 235
    Frere Hewe [ob. 1262]..þat expownede al þe bible,
    and made a greet concordaunce [ Harl. MS.  concordances]
    uppon þe bible. 
     a1631  D ONNE  in  Select.  (1840) 192
    To search the Scriptures,
    not as though thou wouldst make a concordance,
    but an application. 
   
   

   coordinate term 
   
     
        

    Two words are coordinate terms
    if they are  hyponym s of the same
     hypernym . 
     
    Cf.
     holonym ,
     meronym ,
     polyseme . 
     
   

   en do phora 
   
    The use of a word which refers to or substitutes for
    a preceding or following word or group or words. 
   
    Cf.
     anaphora ,
     cataphora . 
   
   

    ep isode 
   
     1.  In the Old Greek Tragedy,
    the interlocutory parts between two choric songs,
    because these were originally interpolations. 
   
     2.  An incidental narrative or digression in a poem, story, etc.,
    separable from the main subject, yet arising naturally from it. 
   
   
     1839  T HIRLWALL   Greece  II. 183
    Herodotus introduces an episode, which..seems..at first sight
    strangely misplaced. 
   
   
     3.   transf.  An incidental ‘passage’ in a person's life,
    in the history of a country, the world, an institution, etc. 
   
    1773  G OLDSM. 
     Stoops to Conq.  II. i, The terrors of a formal courtship,
    together with the episode of aunts, grandmothers and cousins. 
   
   

   goal 
   
    ( Etymology )
   
    † 1.  A boundary, limit. 
     Obs. rare . 
   
   
     c  1315  S HOREHAM 
    145 God nys naugt in þer worldle a-closed, Ac hy hys ine hym. 
    Þag hy nabbe ende ne forþe gol, Get over al he hys y-hol. 
   
  
   
     2. a. 
    The terminal point of a race: 
    any object (as a pillar, mound, etc.) by which this is marked; 
    a winning-post, or the like. 
   
   
     1531  E LYOT   Gov . III. xx. (1534) 224a,
    As in rennynge, passynge the gole, is accounted but rasshenesse,
    so rennynge halfe waye is reproued for slownesse. 
     1538  —  Dict., Meta ,
    a but, or pricke to shote at, somtyme a marke or gowle in the felde,
    wherevnto men or horses do runne. 
     1561  T. N ORTON   Calvin's Inst.  III. 222
    Let that be appointed the gole for vs to run and trauaill vnto. 
   
  
   
    b.  fig.  The object to which effort or ambition is directed; 
    the destination of a (more or less laborious) journey. 
     spec.  in  Psychol.  An end or result towards which
    behaviour is consciously or unconsciously directed. 
    Freq.  attrib.  and  Comb. 
   
   
     1608  S HAKES .  Per.  II. i. 171
    Then Honour be but a Goale to my Will,
    This day Ile rise, or else adde ill to ill. 
     1934   Mind  XLIII. 111
    Not all action is due to goal-seeking propensities
     1951  R. F IRTH   Elem. Social Organiz.  vii. 220
    This action is goal-oriented. 
     1952  T. P ARSONS   Social System  8
    The goal-directedness of action. 
     1964  G OULD  &amp; K OLB 
     Dict. Soc. Sci.  290/1
    Goal in psychology and in some social psychology has come increasingly
    to denote an end result of an act or series of acts
    whether or not it can be said to be intended by the organism acting. 
   
  
   

   herme neu tics 
   
    The art or science of interpretation, esp. of Scripture. 
    Commonly distinguished from  exegesis  or practical exposition. 
   

   holonym 
   
    The name of a whole of which a  meronym  is a part. 
     
    Cf.
     coordinate term ,
     hypernym ,
     hyponym ,
     polyseme . 
     
   

   hy po mnema 
   
    (pl. hypomnemata)
    [Wikipedia] (edited for grammar and spelling)
   
    The hypomnema is a special type of notebook used in
    ancient Greek society by variety of common people such as
    tradesmen, philosophers, theologians, and students
    to keep personal records and
    formulate opinions about the experience of the self. 
    This habitual type of personal notekeeping was coming into vogue
    in Plato's time (ca. 4th century BC)
    and represents one of western culture's earliest
    technological advancements to create a conscious logos. 
   
   
    This new technology was as disruptive to ancient Greek society
    as the introduction of the computer into private life today. 
    Hypomnemata served the growing cultivated public in many ways —
    as account books, public registers, guides for conduct,
    and individual notebooks serving as memoranda. 
   
   
    In  The Care of the Self , the third volume of
    Foucault's  The History of Sexuality , he writes: 
     As personal as they were,
    the hypomnemata must nevertheless not be taken for
    intimate diaries or for those accounts of spiritual experience
    (temptations, struggles, falls, and victories)
    which can be found in later Christian literature. 
    [...] [T]heir objective is not to bring the arcana conscientiae to light,
    the confession of which — be it oral or written —
    has a purifying value. 
   
   
    Plato's students used the hypomnema as the foundation to
    his philosophic teachings. 
    A hypomnema constituted a material memory of things
    read, heard, or thought,
    thus offering these as an accumulated treasure
    for rereading and later meditation. 
    They also formed a raw material for the writing of
    more systematic treatises in which were given arguments and means
    by which to struggle against some defect
    (such as anger, envy, gossip, flattery)
    or to overcome some difficult circumstance
    (a mourning, an exile, downfall, disgrace). 
   
   

   hypernym 
   
     
        

    A word with a broad meaning constituting a category into which
    words with more specific meanings fall; 
    a superordinate term. 
    Opposed to  hyponym ; 
    related to  coordinate term . 
     
    Cf.
     coordinate term ,
     holonym ,
     hyponym ,
     meronym ,
     polyseme . 
     
   

   hyponym 
   
    A word with a specific meaning that falls into the category
    constituted by a word with a broader meaning; 
    a subordinate term. 
    Opposed to  hypernym . 
     
    Cf.
     coordinate term ,
     holonym ,
     hypernym ,
     meronym ,
     polyseme . 
     
   

   lemmatize 
   
     trans.  To sort (words as they occur in a text)
    so as to group together those that are inflected or variant forms
    of the same word. 
   
     1973   Computers &amp; Humanities  VII. 132
    The vocabulary lists were next lemmatized by hand. 
     Ibid.,  The computer program made no attempt
    to lemmatize words or to distinguish homographs,
    but simply counted the number of occurrences of each distinct word-type. 
   
   

   merism 
  
   
     
        

    A figure of speech in which
    two (or sometimes more) complementary parts
    are used to represent the whole,
    as in  goods and chattels 
    (immovable and movable property, thus property),
    and the Homeric
    κειμήλιά
    τε
    πρόβασίν
     riches which lie and riches which move 
    (Watkins,  How to Kill a Dragon , Oxford 1995). 
   

   meronym 
   
    The name of a constituent part of a whole
    named by a  holonym . 
     
    Cf.
     coordinate term ,
     hypernym ,
     hyponym ,
     polyseme . 
     
   

    met aphor 
   
     1. 
    A figure of speech in which a name or descriptive word or phrase
    is transferred to an object or action different from, but analogous to,
    that to which it is literally applicable; 
    an instance of this, a metaphorical expression. 
    Cf.  metonymy   n. ,
     simile   n.  
   
     1712  J. A DDISON   Spectator  No 289 ¶8
    Those beautiful Metaphors in Scripture, where Life is termed a Pilgrimage. 
     1876  J. B. M OZLEY   Serm. before Univ. Oxf.  xvi. 301
    The metaphor of the poet is perfectly true in fact, for life  is  a stage. 
     1952  R. A. K NOX   Hidden Stream  iv. 33
    It is a metaphor
    if you describe Oxford as a hive of industry,
    or some of its inhabitants as drones. 
   
  
    2. 
    Something regarded as representative or suggestive of something else,
    esp. as a material emblem of an abstract quality, condition, notion, etc.; 
    a symbol, a token. Freq. with  for, of . 
   
   
     1997  J. S EABROOK   Deeper  viii. 253
    The desktop metaphor shifted to the hypertext metaphor,
    in which work was not filed in stand-alone folders
    but linked across networks to other pages. 
   
        Simile   
         Oxford is like a hive of industry.   
         Metaphor   
         Oxford is a hive of industry.   
         Metonymy   
         The Crown assents.   
         Synecdoche   
        whole-for-part  
          The White House  said
        the bill will not pass.   
        part-for-whole  
         All  hands  on deck!   
        genus-for-species  
         In customer service we
        deal with the  public .   
        species-for-genus  
         I need a  xerox  of this.   
        material-for-object  
         He used to throw the  pigskin 
        a bit.   
        

   me ton ymy 
   
    [ OED ]:
   
    a. Rhetoric. 
    (A figure of speech characterized by) the action of substituting
    for a word or phrase denoting an object, action, institution, etc.,
    a word or phrase denoting a property or something associated with it; 
    an instance of this. 
   
   b. 
    In extended use: a thing used or regarded as a substitute for or symbol of
    something else. 
    Also (esp. in Linguistics and Literary Theory): 
    the process of semantic association involved in
    producing and understanding a metonymy. 
    Because the association involved in metonymy is typically by
    contiguity rather than similarity,
    metonymy is often contrasted with metaphor. 
   
   
     1625  A. G IL   Sacred Philos.  II. 156
     Shebet  signifies either a staffe, a truncheon, or Scepter,..and
    so by a metonymia it may signifie authority. 
   
   [Wikipedia]:
   
   
    In rhetoric and cognitive linguistics, ... 
    the use of a single characteristic to identify a more complex entity. 
    It is also known as  denominatio  or
     pars pro toto  (part for the whole). 
   
     The pen is mightier than the sword (pen is a metonym for writing; 
    sword is a metonym for violence). 
     
       The White House , to refer to
    the President of the United States and his advisors. 
     
       The press , to refer to the news media
    (especially newspapers). 
     
       A dish , to refer to an entree. 
     
       Hollywood  to refer to the American film industry
    (this is also a toponym). 
     
    
    Metonymy works by contiguity rather than similarity. 
    The printing press produces newspapers
    (hence,  the press  for the news media); 
    food is presented on a dish (hence  dish  for entree). 
    However, when people use metonymy,
    they don't typically wish to transfer qualities as they do with metaphor: 
    there is nothing house-like about the president, crown-like about the king,
    or plate-like about an entree. 
    Rather, metonymy transfers a whole set of associations
    which may or may not be integral to the meaning. 
   
   
    In linguistics, as in rhetoric,
    the distinction between metaphor and metonymy is important. 
    Two examples using the term  fishing  help make the distinction clear
    (example drawn from Dirven, 1996). 
   
   
    The phrase  to fish pearls  uses metonymy,
    drawing from  fishing  the idea of taking things from the ocean. 
    What is carried across from  fishing fish 
    to  fishing pearls 
    is the domain of usage and the associations with the ocean and boats,
    but we understand the phrase
    in spite of rather than because of the literal meaning of fishing: 
    we know you do not use a fishing rod or net to get pearls. 
   
   
    In contrast, the metaphorical phrase  fishing for information ,
    transfers the concept of fishing
    (waiting, hoping to catch something that you can't see) into a new domain. 
   
   
    Thus, metonymy works by calling up a domain of usage and an array of associations
    (in the example above, boats, the ocean, gathering life from the sea)
    whereas metaphor picks a target set of meanings
    and transfers them to a new domain of usage. 
   
   
    Synecdoche, where a specific part of something is taken to refer to the whole,
    is usually understood as a specific kind of metonymy. 
    Sometimes, however,
    people make an absolute distinction between a metonymy and a synecdoche,
    treating metonymy as different from rather than inclusive of synecdoche. 
    There is a similar problem with the usage of simile and metaphor. 
   
   
    When the distinction is made, it is the following: 
     when A is used to refer to B,
     it is a synecdoche if A is a part of B and a metonym
     if A is commonly associated with B but not a part of it. 
   
   
    Thus,
     The White House said  would be a metonymy for
    the president and his staff,
    because the White House (A) is not part of the president or his staff (B),
    it is merely closely associated with them because of physical proximity. 
    On the other hand,
    asking for  All hands on deck  is a synecdoche because
    hands (A) are actually a part of the men (B) to whom they refer. 
   
   
    There is an example which displays synecdoche,
    metaphor and metonymy in one sentence. 
     Fifty keels ploughed the deep ,
    where  keels  is the synecdoche as it takes a part (of the ship)
    as the whole (of the ship); 
     ploughed  is the metaphor as it substitutes the concept of
    ploughing a field for moving through the ocean; 
    and  the deep  is the metonym,
    as  deepness  is an attribute associated with the ocean. 
   
   
    Cf.  metaphor ,
     simile ,
     synecdoche . 
   
   

   on tol ogy 
   
    The science or study of being; 
    that department of metaphysics which relates to
    the being or essence of things, or to being in the abstract. 
   
     1721  B AILEY ,  Ontology ,
    an Account of being in the Abstract. 
     a1832  B ENTHAM   Fragm. Ontol.  Wks. 1843 VIII. 195
    The field of ontology, or as it may otherwise be termed,
    the field of supremely abstract entities, is a yet untrodden labyrinth. 
   
   

   pe ric ope 
   
    (final 'e' is pronounced)
   
     a.  A short passage, section, or paragraph in a writing. 
   
   
     b.   Eccl.  A portion of Scripture appointed for
    reading in public worship. 
   
   
     c.   Anc. Pros.  ‘A passage consisting of strophe and antistrophe’
    (Liddell &amp; Scott). 
   
   

   pe riph rasis 
   
     1.  That figure of speech which consists in expressing
    the meaning of a word, phrase, etc., by many or several words
    instead of by few or one; 
    a roundabout way of speaking, circumlocution. 
   
     1589  P UTTENHAM   Eng. Poesie  III. xviii. (Arb.) 203
    Then haue ye the figure Periphrasis,..as when we go about the bush,
    and will not in one or a few words expresse
    that thing which we desire to haue knowen,
    but do chose rather to do it by many words. 
     1759  S TERNE   Tr. Shandy  I. xi,
    Yorick had no impression but one..which..he would usually
    translate into plain English without any periphrasis. 
     1864   Theol. Rev.  Mar. 16
    Some name is needful if we would avoid the loose clumsiness
    of perpetual periphrasis. 
   
   
     2.  An example or instance of this figure; a roundabout phrase. 
    (The pl.  periphrases  is not distinguished in writing
    from that of  periphrase .)
   
   
     1690  L OCKE   Hum. Und.  II. xxii. §7
    And instead of either of those Names,
    use a Periphrasis to make any one understand their meaning. 
     Ibid.  III. x. §
    31 He that hath complex Ideas without Names for them..is necessitated to use
    Periphrases. 
     1865   Reader  1 Apr. 365/1
    The Laplanders and Tunguy only speak of the bear and the tiger by
    a periphrasis. 
   
   
    † b.  fig. An amplification, a larger expression. 
   
   

    pol yseme 
   
     
        

    A word or lexical unit that has several or multiple meanings.
     
    Polysemes are usually considered to have several related meanings,
    and are thus distinguished from homonyms,
    words which share the same spelling but have unrelated origins and meanings.
     
     
    Cf.
     coordinate term ,
     holonym ,
     hypernym ,
     hyponym ,
     meronym . 
     
   

   propar ox ytone 
     
     A.   adj. 
    Designating or relating to a word in ancient Greek
    having an acute accent on the antepenultimate syllable.
    Also in extended use:
    designating or relating to a word in another language
    having the stress on that syllable.
     

   prosopo poe ia 
   
     1. 
    A rhetorical figure by which an imaginary or absent person
    is represented as speaking or acting; 
    the introduction of a pretended speaker. 
    Cf.  apostrophe . 
    2. 
    A rhetorical figure by which an inanimate or abstract thing
    is represented as a person, or with personal characteristics: 
    =  PERSONIFICATION  1. 
   
   b. transf. 
    Applied to a person or thing in which
    some quality or abstraction is as it were embodied; 
    an impersonation, embodiment (of something). 
   
   

    prot asis 
   
    1. That which is put forward; a proposition, a maxim.   rare . 
   
     1806   Monthly Mag.  XXII. 210
    It is a universally received protasis among grammarians
    that the first terms of every language were nouns,
    which were turned into verbs by putting them in action. 
   
   
     2.  In the ancient drama, The first part of a play,
    in which the characters are introduced and the subject entered on,
    as opposed to the  epitasis  and  catastrophe . 
    Also  fig . 
   
   
     1632  B. J ONSON   Magn. Lady  I. i,
    Do you look, master Damplay, for conclusions in a protasis? 
    I thought the law of comedy had reserved [them] to the catastrophe. 
   
   
     3.   Gram . and  Rhet . 
    The first or introductory clause in a sentence,
     esp . the clause which expresses the condition
    in a conditional sentence; 
    opposed to the   apodosis  . Also  fig . 
   
   
     1588  W. K EMPE   Educ. Children  sig. G.4  v ,
    Only the protasis or first part of our similitude is attributed but to Cato,
    for want of a like similitude garnished with like authoritie. 
     a1922  J OYCE   Ulysses  704
    Positing what protasis would the contraction for such several schemes
    become a natural and necessary apodosis? 
     1971   Language  XLVII. 81,
    I use the term ‘conditional sentence’ to cover
    the entire complex sentence consisting of a protasis and an apodosis. 
   
  
   
     4 .  Ancient Prosody . The first colon of a dicolic line or period. 
   
   

    sat isfice 
   
     1. 
    1. trans. = SATISFY  v. Obs.  exc.  north.  (see E.D.D.). 
   
     1721  K ELLY   Scot. Prov.  325 Satisfic'd,
    that is, satisfied. 
   
  
   
     2.   intr. [by Herb Simon in 1956] 
    To decide on and pursue a course of action
    that will satisfy the minimum requirements
    necessary to achieve a particular goal. 
    Hence  satisficer ;  satisficing   ppl. a.  and  vbl. n. 
   
   
     1956  H. S IMON  in  Psychol. Rev.  LXIII. 129/2
    Evidently, organisms adapt well enough to ‘satisfice’; 
    they do not, in general, ‘optimize’. 
     Ibid.  136/1 A ‘satisficing’ path, a path that will permit
    satisfaction
    at some specified level of all its needs. 
   
  
   

   sce nar io 
   
     1. a.  A sketch or outline of the plot of
    a play, ballet, novel, opera, story, etc.,
    giving particulars of the scenes, situations, etc. 
    Also transf. and fig. 
   
     1878  G. H. L EWES  Jrnl. 28-29 Apr.
    in  Geo. Eliot Lett.  (1956)
    VII. 13 Schemed a scenario from  Daniel Deronda . 
     1884  P. S IMPSON  in  Pall Mall G.  19 May 1/2
    As the next step, I write an elaborate scenario..minutely
    setting down, not only the scenes as they follow,
    the action of the personages engaged,
    the sense of all they have to say, but even the ‘stage business’. 
     1923  W ODEHOUSE   Inimitable Jeeves  xviii. 250
    ‘Jeeves!’ ‘Sir?’ ‘I'm in the soup.’
    ‘Indeed, sir?’ I sketched out the scenario for him. 
    ‘What would you advise?’
   
   
     b.   Cinemat. 
    A film script with all the details of scenes, appearances of characters,
    stage-directions, etc., necessary for shooting the film. 
   
   
     2.  A sketch, outline, or description of
    an imagined situation or sequence of events; 
    esp. 
     (a)  a synopsis of the development of a hypothetical future world war,
    and hence an outline of any possible sequence of future events; 
     (b)  an outline of an intended course of action; 
     (c)  a scientific model or description intended to account
    for observable facts. 
    Hence, in weakened senses
    (not easily distinguishable from sense 1a  transf.  and  fig. ): 
    a circumstance, situation, scene, sequence of events, etc. 
   
   
    The over-use of this word in various loose senses
    has attracted frequent hostile comment.—R.W.B. 
   
   
     1962  H. K AHN   Thinking about Unthinkable  v. 143
    A scenario results from an attempt to describe..some
    hypothetical sequence of events... 
    Scenarios may explore and emphasize an element of a larger problem
    such as..the process of ‘escalation’ of a small war. 
     Ibid. , The scenario is an aid to the imagination. 
     1966  ‘W. C OOPER ’
     Memoirs of New Man  I. viii. 103,
    I admired the beauty and simplicity of his plan—or
    ‘scenario’, as the case might be. 
     1975   Sci. Amer.  Jan. 29/2
    Some meteoriticists boldly construct multistage scenarios of
    condensation, agglomeration, accretion, heating, metamorphism
    and differentiation to explain the accumulated facts. 
     1975   N.Y. Times  29 Mar. 11/1
    There is a certain narrative element in this whacky art,
    but it would be a brave man who tried to extract
    a single coherent scenario from any single picture or construction. 
     1976   Sci. Amer.  Oct. 79A/2
    Many of the models we have mentioned here are better characterized by
    the term scenario... 
    There is so little detailed information
    that the proposals should not be dignified by the term model. 
    Nevertheless, a good scenario can sometimes lead to a good model. 
   
   
    Hence  scenario   v. trans. ,
    to make a scenario of (a story, book, or idea); 
    to sketch out; 
    also  scenarioize ,  scenarize ,  vbs . 
   
  
   

    sim ile 
   
     1. 
    A comparison of one thing with another, esp. as
    an ornament in poetry or rhetoric. 
   
     1779  J OHNSON   L.P., Pope ,
    A simile, to be perfect, must both illustrate and ennoble the subject. 
   
   
    Cf.  metaphor ,
     metonymy . 
   
   

   syl lep sis 
   
     1.  Gram. and Rhet. 
    A figure by which a word, or a particular form or inflexion of a word,
    is made to refer to two or more other words in the same sentence,
    while properly applying to or agreeing with only one of them
    (e.g. a masc. adj. qualifying two ns., masc. and fem.; 
    a sing. verb serving as predicate to two subjects, sing. and pl.),
    or applying to them in different senses (e.g. literal and metaphorical). 
    Cf.   ZEUGMA  . 
   
     1586  A. D AY   Engl. Secretorie  II. (1625) 82
     Syllepsis , when one verbe supplyeth two clauses,
    one person two roomes, or one word serueth to many senses,
    as, thus, Hee runnes for pleasure, I for feare. 
   
   

   sy nec doche 
   
    (final 'e' is long;  pronounced to rhyme with  Schenectady )
   
    [ OED ]
    A figure by which a more comprehensive term
    is used for a less comprehensive or  vice versâ ; 
    as whole for part or part for whole,
    genus for species or species for genus, etc. 
   
   
    Formerly sometimes used loosely or vaguely,
    and not infrequently misexplained. 
   
   
    [Wikipedia] a figure of speech that presents a kind of metaphor in which: 
   
     A part of something is used for the whole
      ( hands  to refer to workers,  head  for cattle,
       threads  for clothing),
     
      The whole is used for a part
      ( the police  for a handful of officers,
       body  for the trunk of the body,
        the Pentagon  for the top-ranking generals in the Pentagon building),
     
      The species is used for the genus
      ( cutthroat  for assassin,  kleenex  for facial tissue,
       bread  for food),
     
      The genus is used for the species
      ( creature  for person,  milk  for cow's milk), or
     
      The stuff of which something is made is used for the thing
      ( willow  for cricket bat,  boards  for stage,
       ivories  for piano keys,  plastic  for credit card). 
     
    
    Cf.  metonymy 
   
   

   tele ol ogy 
   
    The doctrine or study of ends or final causes,
    esp. as related to the evidences of design or purpose in nature; 
    also  transf . such design as exhibited in natural objects or phenomena. 
   

    zeug ma 
   
    A figure by which a single word is made to refer to
    two or more words in the sentence; 
    esp. when properly applying in sense to only one of them,
    or applying to them in different senses; 
    but formerly more widely, including, e.g.,
    the use of the same predicate, without repetition,
    with two or more subjects; 
    also sometimes applied to cases of irregular construction,
    in which the single word agrees  grammatically  with
    only one of the other words to which it refers
    (more properly called   SYLLEPSIS  ). 
   
     1586  A. D AY   Engl. Secretorie  II. (1595) 82
     Zeugma , when one or more clauses are concluded vnder one verbe,
    as to say, His loosnesse ouercame all shame; his boldnesse, feare; 
    his madnesse, reason. 
   
   

  

 

 
 
     
      
 
 2010May16Su21:42 
 
 Thomas A. Alspaugh 
  alspaugh 
     at  · ics · uci · edu 
      
 
 


</body> 