 Graph Algorithms<body>
 Computer Science 163/265, Spring 2016: 
Graph Algorithms 

  General Course Information 

 The course meets Monday, Wednesday, and Fridays, 2:00 - 2:50
in  Bren Hall, room 1100 .  Prof. Eppstein's office hours are Mondays and Wednesdays from 4:00 - 5:00 (or by
appointment) in Bren 4082.  The teaching assistant is Nitin Agarwal,
office hours Tuesdays 3:00 - 4:00 in DBH 3013 and Wednesdays 5:00 - 6:00
in DBH 4011. We also have two readers, Shu Kong and Jia Chen. 

 Coursework will consist of weekly homeworks, a midterm, and a
comprehensive final exam. Group work on homeworks is permitted;
each student should turn in his or her own copy of the homeworks. The
undergraduate (163) and graduate (265) courses will share lectures, and
some homework problems; however, the graduate course will have
additional homework problems and different exams. Homeworks will typically be assigned on Fridays and due on the following Friday,
electronically in PDF format via the eee web site. 

 The text we will be using is   Graph
Algorithms  , a collection of readings compiled from
Wikipedia. Lecture materials will not be distributed to the class; instead, you are encouraged to attend the lecture yourself and take your own notes. Recording the lectures for your own personal use is allowed, but other uses of recorded lectures (including making them available online) is forbidden. 

 The final grade will be formed by combining the numerical scores from
the homeworks (20%), midterm (35%), and final (45%). 

 For the UCI honesty policy, please see  honesty.uci.edu . Students who are caught cheating in this class (for instance by copying exam solutions or allowing other students to copy from them) risk getting an F in the class or other disciplinary action as allowed by this policy. 

 Tentative Schedule of Topics 
  Week 1. 
  Web crawler  case study.  PageRank
algorithm .  DFS ,  BFS ,  Tarjan's
algorithm  for  strongly connected
components .  Representation of graphs . 
  Homework 1 , Due Friday, April 8. 
 Week 2. 
  Maze 
and  river network simulation via invasion percolation  case
study.  Minimum
spanning trees ,  Prim-Dijkstra-Jarnik
algorithm ,  Boruvka's
algorithm ,  Kruskal's
algorithm . 
  Preference
voting case study  and
the  widest
path problem . 
  Homework 2 , Due Friday, April 15. 
 Week 3. 
 No class Monday, April 11, or Wednesday, April 13. 
  DAGs  and
 topological
ordering . 
  Homework 3 , Due Friday, April 22. 
 Week 4. 
  Road map path planning  case study.
 Shortest paths ,
 relaxation algorithms ,
 Dijkstra's algorithm ,
 Bellman-Ford algorithm ,
 Johnson's algorithm . 
  A*
algorithm ,
 Euclidean
distance  based distance estimation,
 landmark-based distance estimation . 
  Homework 4 , Due Friday, April 29. 
 Week 5. 
 Transportation scheduling case study.
 Euler tours .
 Travelling salesman problem . 
  Exponential-time dynamic programming for the TSP ,
 approximation algorithms and the approximation ratio ,
 MST-doubling
heuristic ,
 Christofides' heuristic . 
 Week 6. 
 Midterm, Monday, May 2. 
  Baseball
elimination  case study.  Maximum flow
problem ,  minimum cut
problem ,  max-flow
min-cut theorem ,  augmenting
path (Ford-Fulkerson) algorithm . 
  Homework 5 , Due Friday, May 13. 
 Week 7. 
  Medical
school residency assignment  case study.  Matchings ,  stable
marriage ,  Gale-Shapley
algorithm for stable marriage .  Bipartite
graphs ,  formulating bipartite maximum matching as a flow problem ,
 Hopcroft–Karp algorithm .  Using
  matchings to find vertex covers and independent sets ,
 partition into a minimum number
  of rectangles . 
  Homework 6 , Due Friday, May 20. 
 Week 8. 
  Register allocation  case study.
 Graph coloring ,
 greedy coloring ,
 interval graphs ,
and  perfect graphs .  Chordal graphs 
and
using  Lexicographic
breadth-first search  to find an elimination ordering. 
 Guest lecture Friday, May 20:  Mike Goodrich on graph drawing  
  Homework 7 , Due Friday, May 27. 
 Week 9. 
  Social network analysis  case study.
Social network
properties:  sparsity ,  small
world
property ,  power
laws .  Barabási-Albert model .  Clustering
coefficient ,  degeneracy
and k-cores ,  degeneracy-based dynamic triangle counting algorithm .  Cliques ,  Moon-Moser
bound on maximal cliques ,  Bron-Kerbosch
algorithm . 
  Homework 8 , Due Friday, June 3. 
 Week 10. 
 Memorial day holiday, Monday, May 30. 
  Planar
graphs ; review of planarity-related topics from earlier weeks (graph
drawing, road maps, invasion percolation via minimum spanning trees of
grid graphs, graph coloring and the four-color theorem).  Duality ,
duality of  Euler
tours  and  bipartiteness ,
 Euler's formula ,
greedy 6-coloring, Boruvka in linear time.
 Planarity testing , and  Fáry's theorem . 
 Finals week 
 Final examination (cumulative), Wednesday, Jun 8, 10:30-12:30. 
  Material from Previous Course Offerings 

 The  syllabus  from Spring 2015 has more links, to syllabi and exams from earlier quarters. 

</body> 