 ICS 163 - Syllabus<body>
 
    Syllabus - ICS 163 - Graph Algorithms   
 Michael T. Goodrich    
	  http://www.ics.uci.edu/~goodrich/teach/ics163/   
(Office hourse by appointment)
 

   Coursework.  Coursework will consist of weekly homeworks,
two midterms, and a comprehensive final exam. The overall grade
will be determined 20% from homework, 25% from each midterm, and
30% from the final.
Group work on homeworks is permitted, but each
student must list his or her collaborators in writing for each problem.
If a student turns in a solution without listing
the others who helped produce this solution,
this act will be considered cheating (for it is plagarism).
Late homework assignments will not be accepted.  

  Exam policy. 
Exam performance must be 100% individual effort; no collaboration
is allowed on exams.  Any collaboration or copying on exams 
will be considered cheating.
In addition to the procedures of the
 ICS 
Cheating Policy , students caught cheating on exams will be given a 
failing grade in the class.
 

  Text.  The course text TBA.
 

  Add/drop policy.  
Drops will be accepted only up to the first midterm. 
Once your drop card has been
signed, further coursework from you will not be graded. After the
seventh week of classes, withdrawals will be allowed only by
petition and under documented extenuating circumstances.
 
  Tentative Schedule 

   Week 1: 
Introduction, data structures, depth-first search.
   Week 2: 
Spanning trees.
   Week 3: 
Network flow.
   Week 4: 
Matching. 
    Midterm I     Week 5: 
Euler and Hamiltonian tours.
NP-completeness.
   Week 6: 
Paradigms for graph drawing.
   Week 7: 
Divide-and-conquer and tree drawing.
   Week 8: 
Planar graphs and planar graph drawing.
    Midterm II     Week 9: 
Flow-based graph drawing topics.
Layered drawings.
   Week 10: 
Force-directed drawings.
   
  
Copyright &amp;copy 2003
 
Michael T. Goodrich , as to all lectures. 
Students are prohibited from selling 
(or being paid for taking) notes during this course to or by any
person or commercial firm without the express written permission of the
professor teaching this course.

 </body> 