 ICS 10A * Assignment 8<body>
  
  
        
 
 This assignment is due at the beginning of
your discussion section on Wednesday, December 3.  We've allowed two
weeks for this assignment so you have more flexibility to plan around the
Thanksgiving holiday, but this assignment is somewhat larger and more open-ended
than the others, so don't look at it as a week's vacation.  
 
  Summary:  This assignment will also
give you practice with boolean searches, help you recognize good typographic
design, good software user interfaces, and effective presentation graphics.  
  
  Part I:  Boolean Searches   
 
 For this part of the homework, use the "Advanced
Search" feature of the AltaVista search engine (   www.altavista.com   )
to formulate boolean searches.  You should start by reading the Help page
there.  
 
  (a)   Formulate a boolean search to
find information that will help you calculate the probability of each of
the following events:  
  
 A person being struck by lightning.  
   
 A person dying in an earthquake.  
   
 A person dying in an automobile accident.  
   
 A person dying of influenza.  
  
 For each event, print out or write down the
search queries you used, the pages where you found the information, and
your estimate of the probability (showing how you arrived at the figure--both
your calculations and the sources of the numbers you used).  
 
  (b)   Compare the probabilities you
estimated above with the probability of wining the SuperLotto jackpot.  
  
  Part II:  User Interface   
 
  (a)   Pick two application programs,
ones you use regularly, that don't work as well as they should from
a user interface perspective.  Describe their shortcomings and how you would
improve them.  Also give, if you can, the reasons why the software might
work as it currently does.  (Is it intended for a different audience than
people like you?  Would fixing it be too hard technically?)  Consult with
your TA or instructor on this if you like.  
 
  (b)   Find three examples, on the Web
or in print, of documents that violate the principles of good typography
described in class and on the handout.  Choose documents that violate a
variety of the principles as egregiously as possible.  Print or photocopy
the documents, annotating them with the violations and your suggestions
for improving them.  
  
  Part III:  Presentation Graphics   
 
  (a)  A broad range of data about UCI
is available at  http://www.oas.uci.edu/ .
 Most of this data appears in table form; how would you present it graphically?
 From the UCI data available from this page, locate three different sets
of data:
 
-- One that would be most effectively shown in a pie chart
 
-- One that would be most effectively shown in a line chart
 
-- One that would be most effectively shown as a bar chart.  
 
  (a.1)   For each of the three sets,
print out the page containing the data (if there's more than a page
or two, just print the first two pages) and give a sentence describing why
the chart type you've chosen is effective for that data.  
 
  (a.2)   For one of the three sets (your
choice), copy the data out of the web page, paste it into Excel, clean it
up as necessary, and actually produce the chart.  Make your chart as clear
and effective as possible.  
 
  (b)   Find an example, on the Web or
in print media, of particularly bad information display.  Turn in a copy
along with your critique, describing all the ways in which it is misleading
or unclear or incomplete.    
 
  (c)   Edward Tufte criticizes the user
interface of most software for devoting too little of the screen area to
actual content (as opposed to borders, decoration, controls, and so on).  
 
 Find two different application programs on
the lab machines, one that's particularly bad about devoting space to
content and one that's particularly good.  (Consider just the part of
the screen that the application uses--its main window, typically.  Don't
count the task bar and other things displayed by Windows.)  Print a screen
shot of each, indicating which is bad and which is good about devoting space
to content.  These don't have to be applications that you've used
before; you just need to start them up and see how much space is devoted
to content.   
  
  What to turn in:   Turn in a printed
document with answers, clearly labeled, to all the questions raised above.
 Include the illustrations and samples we specified.  
   
 Written by David G. Kay, Summer 1999.  
 
 Revised by David G. Kay, Fall 2000, Fall 2001, and Fall 2003.  
  
 
  
  
  David G. Kay ,
 406B Computer Science
   University of California, Irvine 
   Irvine, CA  92697-3425  
 --     (949) 824-5072   
 --  Fax    (949) 824-4056   
 --  Email   
     kay@uci.edu 
    

 
 Wednesday, November 19, 2003 -- 8:00 AM  
</body> 