 Acute Square Triangulation<body>

 
   
 
  Acute Square Triangulation 

 An
old puzzle asks for a partition of the square into
triangles in which all angles are strictly acute.
This can be solved with eight triangles:

    
  

 The dashed circles above represent "forbidden regions" in which one
of the angles would be obtuse.  As  Lindgren 
and  Cassidy and Lord  showed, eight
triangles is best possible, and there exist alternate solutions with any
even number of triangles larger than eight.

  Recently, John Tromp added a new twist to the problem by  asking on sci.math  how to make the angles as acute as possible.
For the eight-triangle solution, he found a placement of the vertices in
which the maximum angle is only about 85 degrees, and asked if more
triangles would achieve even better angles.

  My own involvement with the problem began several years earlier, with
my paper " Provably good mesh generation ".
One of the ideas in that paper was to define certain "tiles" that could
be placed on the squares of a
 quadtree , to form
acute-angled triangulations.

    
       

 The dashed lines mark the boundaries of the quadtree squares, and
indicate that certain half-tiles can be recombined to form three more
tiles, including one in which a square is divided into 26 triangles, all
having angles of at most 80 degrees.  A larger image of the same square
tile is shown below.  The example triangulation above (which has now
become a standard test input in the sparse matrix algorithm community)
uses all nine tile types, and also includes several other triangulated
squares with larger numbers of triangles.

    
  

 Later, I and others showed that
 any polygon could be triangulated with
non-obtuse triangles , and that in fact only  O( n ) non-obtuse triangles suffice  to
triangulate an  n -sided polygon.  However some polygons might
require right angles or angles very close to 90 degrees.

  Returning to Tromp's question on achieving better angles,
a result of  Gerver  implied that the square could
be partitioned into 72-degree triangles, not necessarily meeting
edge-to-edge.  Could this 72-degree bound be achieved by a triangulation
in which all triangles met edge to edge?
One can't do better than 72 degrees
because (by some manipulations with
 Euler's formula ) any triangulated
square has (1) a vertex along a square edge where only two triangles
meet, (2) a square corner covered by only one triangle, or (3) an
interior vertex where at most five triangles meet.  Cases (1) and (2)
give at best 90 degrees, and case (3) gives at best 72.

    
  

 My first solution involved partitioning the square into three
rectangles, each triangulated with 20 triangles, for a total of 60
triangles.  The ends of each rectangle are covered with one 54-54-72
triangle and two 36-72-72 triangles, and the middle is filled with
smaller triangles of varying shapes.  There is some "stretch" possible
in the middle of the triangulation, so a similar solution can be used to
find 72-degree triangulations of any rectangle.

  However, this is not best!  A fourteen triangle solution is possible.

    
  

 To construct this triangulation, place as guides two congruent regular
pentagons, meeting at a face, diagonally in the square (as large as
possible, so that four of their corners touch the square's sides).  Use
as triangulation vertices these four points on the square's sides, the
two centers of the pentagons (on one diagonal of the square), and the
two points on the other diagonal where the pentagons share a corner.
The triangulation has six 54-54-72 triangles (connecting each pentagon
center to three pentagon edges), and eight 45-63-72 triangles (two at
each corner of the square).

  Is fourteen the minimum number of triangles in a 72-degree
triangulation of the square?

     
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Last update: . 
 </body> 