 Stats-Neuro-Workshop2012<body> 
  
 
Developing Novel Statistical Methods in NeuroImaging 
 
  
July 24-26, 2012 
 
(immediately preceding the Joint Statistical Meeting 2012)
 
  
University of California at San Diego
 
  

   
 
The goal of the workshop is to identify open problems in statistical research that emerge from current challenges in neuroimaging. 
 

 
The analysis of brain data presents statistical challenges because of its massiveness, high dimensionality and complex spatio-temporal dependence structure. We expect to see open lines of statistical research especially in the areas of time series, spatial analysis, dimension reduction, statistical learning, functional data analysis, statistical computation and foundations of statistical inference. At the workshop, leaders in neuroimaging will deliver lectures on theoretical background in neuroscience and in the state-of-the-art statistical methods for the analysis of brain imaging data. The workshop topic is timely due to the increased role of late of mathematical and statistical methods in neuroimaging.
    
 
  FEES
 
   Fee of the three-day workshop is US$650 (including lunch)  
 Optional housing is an additional $200  
   Shared on-campus apartment (2 rooms per apt; 2 persons per room)  
  Check-in on July 23 (starting 3pm); Checkout on July 26 by 6 pm   
  Meals: breakfast July 24 through lunch July 26 included 
   

 
 
   
REGISTRATION      (web-based)
  
Limited seats only. The deadline for application is extended to 15 May 2012. 
Note that registration details and scholarship applications done at CHECKOUT.
 
 

 
 
  SCHOLARSHIPS   
 
  Note: Application for scholarships is closed 
effective 26 April 2012.
  
  
We anticipate financial support from the National Science Foundation (DMS). Partial scholarships will be available to junior scholars (PhD students and recent PhDs). There will be travel support (up to $200)
and workshop scholarship (up to $500).
  
In the registration, indicate if you are applying for (1) travel support; and/or (2) partial workshop scholarship
  
Applicants for travel support and/or housing will be notified of the decision by late May 2012.
  
Minorities and women are especially encouraged to apply. 
  

 
 
 
WORKSHOP INSTRUCTORS
  
  
Greg Brown (UC San Diego), Richard Buxton (UCSD), Anders Dale (UCSD), Mark Fiecas (UCSD), Martin Lindquist (Columbia University), Tom Liu (UCSD), 
Tim Mullen (UCSD), Hernando Ombao (UC Irvine), 
Wesley Thompson (UCSD)
 
   
 
 
TENTATIVE PROGRAM
  
   
July 24 
  Morning  
  Introduction and Workshop Registration 
  Afternoon 
  Physiological Basis of the BOLD (R. Buxton) 
 Reliability of fMRI (G. Brown) 
 Calibration of the BOLD Signal (T. Liu) 
  Evening
  Socials  
   
July 25
  Morning 
  Overview of Current Statistical Methods (Lindquist, Ombao, Thompson) 
  Afternoon 
  Basics of UNIX Programming (M Fiecas) 
 FSL - image viewing, pre-processing,
batchmode processing (M Fiecas) 
  
July 26
  Morning 
  Structural Imaging and Genetics (A.  Dale) 
 EEG - physics, source localization (T. Mullen) 
  Afternoon 
  FSL – statistical modeling, visual displays 
(M. Fiecas) 
 Discussion of Emerging Mathematical and Statistical Research in NeuroImaging (M. Lindquist, H. Ombao and W. Thompson)  
   
 


 
 
 
ORGANIZING COMMITTEE
  
  
 Martin Lindquist  (Columbia University)    Hernando Ombao  (Univ California at Irvine)  
Wesley Thompson (Univ California at San Diego)   
 

 
 
 
INQUIRIES
 
 
 
Send to stats-neuro@ics.uci.edu
 

  
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
 
 
 
This workshop is mainly supported by the US National Science Foundation (Division of Mathematical Sciences). We also acknowlege support by the UC Irvine Bren School of Information Sciences.
 

 


</body> 