 Bill Tomlinson: Virtual Raft Project<body>
 
   
    
        Virtual 
Raft 
Project   
             
         Team:  
Professor Bill Tomlinson 
Man Lok Yau 
Jesse Gray 

Eric Baumer 
Jessica O'Connell 
Ksatria Williams 
So Yamaoka 
Sara Goetz   Description  
The Virtual Raft Project is a multidisciplinary undertaking seeking to
create communities of believable autonomous characters that inhabit
heterogeneous networks of computational devices. In particular, the
project is interested in allowing the characters to break the plane of
the traditional desktop screen. To this end, we have designed an
interactive installation featuring a novel tangible paradigm for
interacting with the characters. This paradigm involves the use of a
mobile device, such as a Tablet PC or handheld computer, as a “virtual
raft” by which a character may be transported among several virtual
worlds. By enabling the character on the raft to react in real time to
the raft’s motion in real space, this installation encourages
participants to become physically engaged with virtual characters. We
believe that this physical engagement can lead to an increase in the
believability of the characters.     Video  
Please watch  a
short video  about the project.  (~33MB, ~3.5 min, requires  the free Quicktime 6 player .)  
Also, here is  another video  of a group of homeschooled children and their parents interacting with the system. (~27MB, ~4 min, requires Quicktime 6).  (Here is  a version of the video  that will work with older versions of Quicktime.  The video is the same as above, but the file is ~63MB).
   Images   
           
        A "virtual raft" is brought up to a "virtual
island."    
            
        A community of autonomous characters  
gathers around a central fire.   
            
        When the raft is tipped, the character needs to
       
try to keep its
balance.   
       
          Publications  

B. Tomlinson. 2005. "Negative Behavior Space in the Design of Interactive Agents." In: Artificial Intelligence and Interactive Digital Entertainment (AIIDE 05) conference, Marina del Rey, CA. AAAI. (To appear.)
 
B. Tomlinson. 2005.  "A Heterogeneous Animated Platform for Educational Participatory Simulations."  In: 10th Computer Supported Collaborative Learning (CSCL 05) conference. Taipei, Taiwan. (To appear.)  

B. Tomlinson, J. Gray, M. L. Yau. 2005.
 “Multiple Virtual Rafts: A Multi-User Paradigm for Interacting with
Communities of Autonomous Characters.”  In: Late Breaking Results (Interactive Poster), ACM Conference On Human Factors In Computing Systems (CHI
2005), Portland, OR.  
B. Tomlinson, M. L. Yau, J. O’Connell, K. Williams, S. Yamaoka. 2005.
“ The Virtual Raft Project: A Mobile Interface for Interacting with
Communities of Autonomous Characters.”  In: Conference Abstracts and
Applications, ACM Conference On Human Factors In Computing Systems (CHI
2005), Portland, OR.
  B. Tomlinson. 2005. “ Designing Affective Interaction
Paradigms for Animated Characters.”  In: Proceedings of the Human
Computer Interaction Consortium Winter Meeting (HCIC 05), Fraser, CO.
         Exhibition  This project had its first public exhibition on November
19, 2004 at the opening of the new Cal-(IT)2 on the campus of UCI.  
It will also be shown at:    CHI 2005 in the new Interactivity venue  CSCL 2005 as an interactive presentation  SIGGRAPH 2005 in the Emerging Technologies program.    
          
        The version of the project shown at Cal-(IT)2
worked  
with multiple virtual rafts at the same time.  
       
               Presentations    
Jessica O'Connell, SURP Multidisciplinary Seminar, UCI, March 2005 
Man Lok Yau, SURP Multidisciplinary Seminar, UCI, March 2005  
Bill Tomlinson, Cal-(IT)2 opening
(tours), November 2004.   
Man Lok Yau, Southern California Conference on Undergraduate
Research, November 2004  
Bill Tomlinson, UCI Informatics Seminar, October 2004  
Bill Tomlinson, ASU Artist's Lecture, September 2004  
        Future Work  The team currently has collaborations under development
with Professor Lynn Carpenter in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at UCI; with Professor Thomas Alspaugh and his research group in Informatics at
UCI; with Discovery Science Center in Orange County, CA; and with the International Wolf Center in Ely, MN.     
         
          
         
          
          Return to Main Site     
        
</body> 