 ICS 6D Winter   2017  Syllabus<body>

 Course Information 
 ICS 6D  Discrete Math for Computer Science 
 Winter  2017 


  Course staff and office hours  


   Instructor  

  Prof. Sandy Irani    
Office: DBH 4042  
Office Hours: Tues 1:00PM-2:00PM, Friday 10:00AM-10:50AM 
Email:   irani@ics.uci.edu  

   Teaching Assistants  

 Siddharth Gupta  
Office: DBH 4032
  
Office Hours: Thursday, 2:00-2:50PM 
Email:   guptasid@uci.edu    
   Dimitrios Kotzias  
Office: ICS 424F
  
Office Hours: Tuesday, 11:00-11:50AM 
Email:   dkotzias@uci.edu    
   Zahra Montazeri  
Office: DBH 4243
  
Office Hours: Friday, 3:30-4:30PM 
Email:   zmontaze@uci.edu    




   Readers  


 Elham Havvaei  

    Office Hours: by appointment 
    Email:   ehavvaei@uci.edu       
     Pedro Matias  

  Office Hours: by appointment 
  Email:   pmatias@uci.edu       
     Karishma Khanna  

 Office Hours: by appointment. 
 Email:   knkhanna@uci.edu       
   Why learn discrete mathematics? 

 
Discrete mathematics provides the language and abstractions required to reason about
many concepts in computer science.
Most topics studied in a high school mathematics curriculum
(such algebra, trigonomtry, and calculus) are
concerned with continuous
phenomena. These subjects form the foundation for the physical sciences and engineering.
Discrete mathematics, on the other hand, underlies the science and technology of the
computer age.
Discrete mathematics is concerned with mathematical structures that are composed of
distinct pieces or processes that are composed of individual steps.
Since the native language of computers is expressed in binary (0's and 1's), it
is natural that the formalism we use to describe them is discrete mathematics.
 
 
In this course, you will learn the mathematical tools to solve certain classes of problems,
such as how to prove a recursive algorithm computes the correct value, how to encode messages using commonly
used cryptographic
protocols, or how to calculate the probability of events in discrete structures.
In addition, you will expand your mathematical language so that when
you encounter new problems in computer science, you will have the tools
to describe, analyze and understand those problems.
 


  Lectures and Discussions  
 
Lecture will be held MWF 2:00-2:50 in  SSLH 100.
You are responsible for anything said in class, including
class announcements. If you have to miss lecture for any
reason, please ask one of your classmates to fill you
in on what you missed.
 




 
There are four discussion sections for this class. Each section meets two hours per
week. This is an important time to get questions answered about homework
problems. No new content will be given in discussion and we do not take attendance, but you are highly encouraged to
attend as it will give valuable practice on problems.
 

  Class Participation  

 
Students in this class are encouraged to speak up and participate during class meetings
and on Piazza. Because the students in the class will have a diversity of  backgrounds and experiences,
every member of this class must show respect for every other member of this class.
 

 
We will be using i&gt;Clicker and/or REEF in this lecture. I will
typically give several multiple choice questions during
each lecture and you will answer them via your i&gt;Clicker or mobile device.
Your participation in these activities will count towards your participation grade
for the course (1.5% of your total course score). You must either get an account with
REEF ($15 for 6 months) or use an i&gt;Clicker ($56 for the device).
I will be sending out detailed instructions about this some time during week 1.
We will be using them on a trial bases during week 2 and for course credit during weeks 3-10.
 

  Piazza  
 
We will use an online question and answer service called Piazza.
You will all have an account.
The link to the to the course page on Piazza is:
 
 https://piazza.com/uci/winter2017/ics6d/home .
If you have a question about course content, you can go to see if it
has already been asked by another students.
If not, you can post the question yourself.
The course staff will be checking Piazza several times a day
to update answers to questions posted there.
There is also a way for students to collectively edit a response
to a question and for instructors to indicate whether the answer
is a good/correct answer.
 
 
Piazza is also a good place to post general
adnministrative questions about the class.
If you send me an email with a technical or administrative question about the class,
I am likely to refer you to Piazza.
 
 
Important class announcements will also be posted on Piazza. You are responsible
for checking for course announcements at least twice a week.
Only time ciritical announcements will generate an email.
 
 
Before posting a question on Piazza, you should look through the course
materials or previous Piazza posts
to see if you can find the answer to your question.
If your question is about the technical content of the course,
check the text. If you have an administrative question, check the
course web page (either the home page with the schedule or this course information page).
 
 
Piazza provides a way for you to
post anonymously. However, your posts will only be anonymous to other students.
The instructors will be able to see the name and uciNetID of any individual
who posts to Piazza.
 

   Obtaining assistance  

 
Tbe best way to get your questions answered is by coming
to lecture, office hours or discussion and asking them there.
In particular, office hours and discussion are  the best place to ask questions that
require a longer answer or some diaglog to get resolved.
 

 
The table below shows where to go to for different kinds
of questions. Please try to follow the directions there.
 I really do want to be available for significant problems or issues that may arise.
 I also really enjoy meeting students in my office hours.
 However, with a class this size, the  amount of email generated from
 smaller, routine questions can be overwhelming, so I would like you
 to try and find  answers through other sources first.
 

   
Question type
 
 
Example
 
 
Where to go
 
 
    
Questions about course content
 
 
What's the difference between (x,y) and {x,y}?
 
 
Try and find the answer to your question through the course materials. 
If your question is not answered, then   Post on Piazza 
 
   
General administrative questions
 
 
What topics does test 1 cover?
 
 
Check the course web page (schedule and course information) first. 
If your question is not answered, then   Post on Piazza 
 
   
Questions on how your HW or test was graded.
 
 
I don't understand why I didn't get full credit on the first question.
 
 
For homework, send an email to the reader who graded that homework.
For tests, contact the TA or reader who graded that test, either by email
or going to the TA's office hours. There will be a note pinned to the top of
your Q&amp;A feed in Piazza indicating who graded which homework assignment or test.
Contact information for the course staff is listed  here. )
 
   
Minor bug in the text.
 
 
Shouldn't the last line of this animation be x 2  instead of x 1 ?
 
 
Use the feedback button in the text.
 
   
Technical problem you are having with the text.
 
 
Why doesn't the text show 100% progress for Section 1.2? 
I think I did all the activities in the section.
 
 
 support@zyBooks.com 
 
    Grading  

The grading criteria for the course is:
 
Homework 5% (8 out of 9 counted) 
Reading Assignments 5% (35 sections, drop lowest 5) 
Class participation 1.5% (19 lecures, drop 4) 
Tests 88% (22% each) 
Completing the Course Evaluation .5%   
Note that the first three categories count relatively little towards your grade. Also, in each
category there is some "slack" built into the grading so that you can miss some portion of the work
and still get full credit. In exchange, all deadlines are strictly enforced and I do not accept even
legitimate reasons for missing work. I understand that everyone occasionally has valid reasons
why they can not complete their work. The slack in the grading is there to accommodate those situations.
 
 
I am frequently asked whether I curve the grades. The answer to this question will
always be "I don't know".
First of all, no letter grades are assigned to scores until I calculate a final course
percentage for each student. I generally do aim to have the A's fall in the 90-100 range
and the B's in the 80-90 range, etc. Sometimes I am a bit more generous that that, depending
on the distribution of scores. Occasionally I give a test or final that is harder than I
expect. In those circumstances, I will sometimes make a problem count as extra credit.
The best strategy for success is not to think too much about your grade but to continually
do your best to understand the material in the class.
 



  Text  

 
The test for this class is a web-based interactive, animated offering as your "textbook".
You are required to have an account for the course. The material
includes interactive
exercises which will count towards your grade.
The directions for subscribing can be found at:
    Sign up at zyBooks.com 
  Enter zyBook code  UCIICS6DWinter2017  
  Click  Subscribe  
 
The cost to subscribe is $48; any applicable returning student discounts will be applied
automatically. The student subscriptions will be valid through 04/15/17.
Contact  
support@zyBooks.com  for help or with any questions regarding obtaining a subscription.

 
Your reading for this class is associated with your subscription for the Winter 2017 offering of
ICS 6D, so  you will need a new subscription even if you have had a previous subscription
to the Discrete Math zyBook for some other class.
However, if your subscription to the Discrete Math zyBook occurred in the last year (or currently
for another class), you will be automatically given  a 50% discount.
 
 
If you drop the class in the first two weeks, you can contact support@zyBooks.com to get
a full refund for the text.
 




  Credit for reading  
 
Each reading assignment (except for the first two weeks) is due at 2PM the day it is assigned.
The reading assigned for January 11 and 13 (from Chapters 1, 3, and 4) is review
and is not for credit.
The reading for January 18 and 20 is due at 2PM Monday January 23.
Every action through your zyBook is automatically timestamped.
When I compile grades for reading, I determine how much
of your  reading was completed by a particular day and time,
so the deadlines are automatically enforced.
 
 
You are required to complete all the activities labeled  Participation Activity 
by the time the reading is due. The problems labeled  Challenge activity 
are part of the homework. If they are required, they will be listed
specifically in the homework and will be  due at the time the homeowork is due
which is later than the reading.
 
 
You can determine how much of the reading has been completed
by looking at your zyBook dashboard.
Please familiarize yourself with this interface and make sure
that you have 100% completion by 2PM for the sections assigned each
lecture day.
  
In calculating your total course credit for reading, each section of the material
is equally weighted and I drop the five lowest percentages before taking the
average percentage. The percentage is based on whether you eventually got the question
correct, not whether you got the question correct on the first try.
 



  Tests  


 
There will be four tests given during the quarter. Each of these covers a different set of topics covered
in the course. There will be no final exam for this class.
The tests will be given in class during the normal scheduled lecture time.
The dates of the three  tests and the final exam are:
 
  Week 4: Fri, Feb  3 
 Week 6: Fri, Feb 17 
 Week 8: Fri, March 3 
 Week 10: Fri, March 17 
  
There will be assigned seating for the tests. When you arrive in the classroom, you need to get a test
from one of the course staff. Each test is marked with a row and seat number.
You are required to sit in the seat indicated on your test.
It is a violation of the academic honesty policy to swap tests with any other student after you have received
your test or to sit in a seat other than the one designated on your written test.
We will also be checking your student ID when you turn in your test or exam.
 
 
You can find tests from previous quarters in which I have taught ICS 6D on the old web pages
for those classes. From my home page, click on "Past Teaching".
I do not provide solutions to previous tests.
I also do not provide solutions to  tests from this quarter.
The TAs and I are always willing specific questions about the problems on thoese tests, but it is your
responsibility to bring those questions to us.
In particular, discussion is an ideal time to go  through solutions to old tests.
 
 
No electronic devices (including calculators) are allowed in tests or exams.
There should be no visible screens during a test or exam.
Laptops should be closed and tablets should be in a closed folder or stowed in a bag.
Phones should be stowed in a bag or pocket so that they are not visible at all.
 
 
Missed tests or final exam: 
   All four  tests  are mandatory. If you miss a test  and do not have a valid reason, you will receive
a score of 0 on the test.


  
There are only two classes of valid reasons for missing a test:
    An unforeseeable emergency, such as a medical emergency.
In such cases I will ask for documentation.
   An absence from an exam due to a foreseeable circumstance
that I have approved in advance.
    If you miss a test due to a forseeable circumstances, I must receive notification from you a week in advance.
If the absence is due to an unforseeable emergency, I should receive an email from you as soon as you are able
to send it. In either case, I will ask you to come see me in person to discuss how I will
adapt your grade for the course.
 
 
A work conflict or a family vacation is NOT a valid reason for missing a test or the final exam.
   If I accept your reason for missing a test or the final exam, I will assign your grade on the basis
of the remaining course work that you did not miss. There are no make up tests.
    Homework  


 
Homework is due every Wednesday at 1:45PM, starting in week 2.
The homework will consist of a written portion and an electronic portion.
 

 
The electronic portion consists of the problems labeled  Challenge Activity 
embedded in the reading.
These activities are automatically corrected as you do them.
You can redo these problems as many times as you want with no penalty.
You will receive full credit on a challenge activity if you eventually complete the activity correctly
by the time it is due.
 
 
The written portion should be submitted electronically before 1:45PM on the day it is due.  Absolutely no late homework assignments will be accepted.
</strong>. You will be submitting your homework to a system called  GradeScope 
which assists us in grading and giving you feedback. In order to submit your homework, you will need to
create a scanned pdf, store it on your computer and then submit it to your gradescope account.
Everyone who is enrolled in the course will have a gradescope account by the end of week 1.
I will be updating the gradescope roster every morning through week 2, so if you add the class after week 1,
you will have a gradescope account within 24 hours.  Your Gradescope account must use your ucinetid
and not some other email account. 
Instructions on how to create a scanned pdf file of your
homework and how to upload it can be found at:
 
   
http://gradescope-static-assets.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/help/submitting_hw_guide.pdf  
  There is also a video demo at: 
   
http://https://gradescope.com/get_started#student-submission  
  
It is important that you use a scanning app (such as  Scannable  or  Genius Scan ) to create the pdf of your
homework. A desktop scanner can also produce a good scan.  Please note: 
You may not just take a photo of your homework an upload
the jpeg or embed the jpeg in a pdf file. If your homework is not readable by the readers, they will not grade it
and you will receive a 0 for the assignment.
 
 You can handwrite or typeset your homwork. However, if you choose to typeset the homework, you must
us a propoer equation editor. Your solutions should not contain text like "x^2" because that it too combersome
for the readers to parse. In addition, your notation should match the notation used in the text.
 
 
You will notice that the homework counts very little towards your grade.
It is important to do the homework because it enables you to learn the material but a missed
homework will not have a big effect on your grade. Also, I will drop the lowest homework score
in calculating your final grade.
 

 
Grades for the assignements and tests  will be posted through Gradescope.
If you have questions regarding grading, please see the reader or TA who graded that assignment.
The readers and TAs will be posting on Piazza when test grades and homework scores are ready so you will
know who graded which assignments.
 
 
The solutions to the homework problems will be made visible to you after the due date.
 







  Board notes  
 
After lecture, I will post the board notes generated during lecture.
The purpose of posting the notes is to the reduce the amount of
note taking you need to be doing in class. The best way to learn this material
is to attend class and concentrate on what is being said.
Having the board notes provided means that you can spend more time
thinking about the content of the lectures and less time copying down
what is being written.
 
 
The board notes are not intended to be a perfectly readable
transcript for everyting that took place in class.
You will still  have to take some additional notes
based on the discussion in class.
The board notes are definitely not a substitute for attending class.
They merely serve to reduce the amount of writing you need to
do while you are in class.
If you are sitting in lecture and you can not read something I have
written, please raise your hand and ask for clarification.
 
 
If you are unable to attend class for some reason, you should not
expect the board notes to be sufficient to decipher the material I covered.
You need to contact a fellow classmate to get his or her
notes and possibly follow up in discussion with questions.
 






    Academic Honesty  
     The Bren School of ICS and the University have already established an academic honesty policy.  Read it.  
     Violators of academic honesty policies are subject to the penalties described in the Bren School of ICS policy. They are also subject to an immediate course grade of F, and you will not be allowed to drop the course to avoid the grade. Also be aware that a single documented case of academic dishonesty may preclude you from switching into computing majors, registering for computing minors, joining the ICS Honors Program, and graduating from a computing major with honors. 
     Guidelines to avoid plagarism: 
       Do not look at another person's homework. 
      Instead you should prefer to discuss the problem in plain English.
      This helps you to communicate clearly, practice technical jargon as it applies to your problem, and to identify how your solution exhibits behavior different from what you expect.
         Do not write down the solution in your notes. 
      It is perfectly fine (and encouraged) to collborate on work.
      Working in a group is a rewarding experience, and definitely a necessary skill in any professional career.
      The collaboration can include drawing diagrams and perhaps solving the problem on a whiteboard.
      However, you should avoid writing the solution in your notes.
      It is very useful to rethink the problem and go through the details and logic when you solve it again on your own. 
      We expect that: 
       You can monitor each other and enforce these rules among yourselves.  Making sure that others follow these guidelines will help to ensure that they don't pass off your work as their own.
         Your work honestly represents your efforts.  The entire purpose of obtaining an education is so that you can accumulate a body of skills and experience that will help you later on. If you do not perform the work yourself, then you have cheated yourself out of the education. Employers in our field can (and do) screen applicants for skills and knowledge. You will perform poorly (and discredit UCI) if you do not practice now by doing your own work. 
     </body> 