 Tsudik spearheads major security classification overhaul @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 A whole new class 

 
 






  Tsudik spearheads major security classification overhaul  


 
  
 When the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) launched a
major effort to overhaul and update its Computing Classification System — which
provides the standard nomenclature for the entire computer science field — it sought
experts from academia and industry to serve as team leaders for this
challenging and long-overdue task. The organization tapped Gene Tsudik, director
of UCI’s Secure Computing and Networking Center and of the interdisciplinary
Networked Systems graduate program, with overseeing a brand-new section on Security
and Privacy.  
 ACM introduced its classification system in 1964 and has not
published an update since 1998. “The terminology had become archaic and new fields have emerged
during the past 15 years,” notes Tsudik. “For instance, cloud computing did not
exist at all, and security and privacy was a fringe element back then.” 
 Tsudik — who also serves as editor-in-chief
of the ACM  Transactions on Information and System Security  (TISSEC), a leading
archival research journal covering computer/network/information security and
privacy — recruited Columbia University professor Angelos
Keromytis to collaborate in leading a team of half a dozen prominent researchers
to serve as a mini-editorial board. From late 2010 until about two years later,
the all-volunteer group composed and vetted the complex list, which encompasses
such heterogeneous categories as cryptography, intrusion detection and malware
mitigation, as well as security in hardware, software and applications,
database/storage, networks, services and systems. 
 Tsudik and Keromytis also collaborated with other team leaders
in the overarching ACM project to ensure consistent terminology throughout the
revised classification system, and to minimize overlap between categories.  
 The final product is a specification system that helps authors
appropriately label their articles with keywords that accurately reflect the
topic, explains Tsudik. And that means anyone doing research in the field will have
an easier time locating needed information. 
 “All documents today are digitized — from journal articles to
conference proceedings — so consistent terminology is important,” says Tsudik,
who was one of only 17 team leaders worldwide on the entire project. “It’s like
Twitter and hashtags. It allows you to conduct searches more effectively.” 
 The new ACM taxonomy may be viewed at  http://dl.acm.org/ccs.cfm . 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 