 Eclipse Download and Installation Instructions<body>

 
 Eclipse Download and Installation (for Java) Instructions 
 
  
  
 Install Java before installing Eclipse. 
  
You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can
  refer to them while downloading and installing Eclipse.
Or, just keep this document in your browser.
You should read each step completely before performing the action that it
  describes.
This document shows downloading and installing Eclipse on Windows 7
  in Spring 2012..
  
   Eclipse: Version 4.3 (Kepler) 
 

The Eclipse download requires about 182 MB of disk space; keep it on your
  machine, in case you need to re-install Eclipse.
When installed, Eclipse requires about an additional 220 MB of disk space.
  

  Downloading 
  Click
     
      Eclipse . 
    You following page will appear in your browser.
    In this handout we will download  Eclipse Classic 4.3  for
      Windows 32 Bit; if your computer uses Windows, continue below; otherwise
        look above the column of "green arrows" for the label
         Eclipse Kepler (4.3) Packages for 
        and in the pull-down list to its right, choose either
         Mac OS X (Cocoa)  or  Linux  and then continue below.
      
       

  
   Click the  32 Bit  Operating System for your machine
      (even if you know your Operating System is 64 Bits and even if you
      downloaded the 64 Bit version of Python), under the heading
       Eclipse Classic 4.3 (182 MB)  (the second icon from the top).
     
    You will see the following page (don't worry about the name of the
      institution to the right of the big downward pointing arrow).
      
       
   Click the big downward pointing arrow underneath the
       Download eclipse-SDK-4.3-win32.zip from: 
    The site named here, in purple to the right of the arrow:
       [United States] Georgia Tech Software Library (http)  is the
      random one chosen by the download page this time.
     
    This file should start downloading in your standard download folder.
    This file is about 182 Mb so it might take a while to download fully if you
      are on a slow internet connection (it took me about 3 minutes over a
      cable modem).
    Don't worry about the exact time as long as the download continues to make
      steady progress.
      
    The file should appear as
      
       
    Terminate the window browsing the Eclipse download.

  
   Move this file to a more permanent location, so that you can install Eclipse
      (and reinstall it later, if necessary).
 
   Start the  Installing  instructions directly below.
   
   Installing (for Java) 

 Java should be installed before installing Eclipse 
 
   Unzip  eclipse-SDK-4.3-win32.zip , the file that you just
     downloaded and moved.
     
    On my machine (running Windows 7), I can
      Right-click the file.
      Hover over the  IZArc  command from the menu of options.
      Click  Extract Here 
       
       
    If you do not have IZArc or an equivalent unzipping program, here is the
      web site to download a free copy of
       IZarc .
      
    Unzipping this file creates a folder named  eclipse .
    You can leave this folder here or move it elsewhere on your hard disk.
    I recommend putting the downloaded file and resulting folder in the
        C:\Program Files\  directory.

  
   Create a shortcut on your desktop to the  eclipse.exe  file in
      this  eclipse  folder:   
    On most Windows machines, you can
      Right-press the file  eclipse.exe 
      Drag it to the desktop.
      Release the right button.
      Click  Create shortcut here 
       
    Now you are ready to perform a  one-time only  setup of Eclipse on
      your machine.

  
   Double-click the shortcut to Eclipse that you just created above.
     
    The following splash screen will appear
      
       
    and then a  Workspace Launcher  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
    In the  Workspace  text box, your login name should appear between
       C:\Users\  and  \workspace , instead of  Administrator .
      
    Leave  unchecked  the 
       Use this as the default and do not ask again  box.
    Although you will use this same workspace for the entire quarter (checking
      projects in and out of it), it is best to see this
       Workspace Launcher  pop-up window each time you start Eclipse, to
      remind you where your workspace is located.

   Click  OK .
     
    Progress bars will appear as Eclipse loads.
      
    Eventually the Eclipse workbench will appear with a  Welcome  tab
      covering it.
      
       
   Terminate (click  X  on) the  Welcome  tab.
     
    You will not see the  Welcome  tab when you start Eclipse after this
      first time.

  
   Locate the workspace folder created in step 3
      (see  C:\Users\ yourname \workspace ).
     
    Download (right-click and  Save link as )
       IntroLib: Course Library Jar...  
      into the same folder that you are using as your workspace (or move
      this file into the workspace folder after downloading it elsewhere).
  

   Click  Window  (to the left of  Help  on the far right of the 
      line below this window's blue title  Java - Eclipse SDK ) and then
      click  Preferences   in its pull-down menu, as shown below.
     
       
   Disclose  Java  by clicking the  +  in front of  Java  or
      double-clicking  Java  (after the +); the  +  changes to a
       - . 
    Disclose  Installed JREs  similarly. 
    The  Preferences  pop-up window should appear as follows
      (although the path under  Location  might be different on your
      machine).
     
        Under the  Name  column, double-click
      the   icon.
     
    The  Edit JRE  pop-up window will appear.
      
          
   Click  Add External Jars... .
 
   In the  Jar Selection  window, navigate to your workspace folder,
      and double-click the file  introlib.jar .
 
   Scroll down the  JRE system libraries  pane and
      observe the  introlib.jar  file now at the bottom.
     
       
   In the  Edit JRE  window, click  Finish .
 
   In the  Installed JREs  window, click  OK .
 
   Terminate (click  X  on) the Eclipse window.
  
Eclipse is now installed for Java.
 
  </body> 