 Informatics 42 References<body>
  
 
 Informatics 42 • Winter 2008 • David G. Kay• UC Irvine  
 
  Supplementary References   
 
 Each of these references supplements the course
material in some way.  They're not required unless we say otherwise.
 If you'd like to suggest additions to this page, please feel free.  
   Java textbooks: Some students have found full-length textbook introductions to Java helpful 
        Java Concepts, fifth edition,  or  Big Java, third edition,  by Cay Horstmann (Wiley)  
         Head First Java, second edition,  by Sierra and Bates (O'Reilly)   
      
      Java practice problems: 
         javabat.com   provides scores of simple practice programming problems, categorized by type. Enter your solution and it will test it for you.  
      
    Java IDEs:  Software to help you write your
    Java code    
              Eclipse :
              This is the most popular open-source professional Java development environment.
              It does a lot; it's very complex; it's highly configurable.   
       
            DrJava :
            Developed at Rice University in Houston, it's very roughly a Java version
            of DrScheme.  (The DrScheme project started at Rice, also, but now the DrJava
            and DrScheme groups are entirely separate.  DrScheme's Java component,
            ProfessorJ, doesn't support full Java yet.)   
       
          BlueJ :
          Another student-oriented development environment.  It lets you organize
          your class hierarchy graphically.  
         
   
     Shorter documents about various aspects of
      our course    
            Pair Programming Illuminated,  by Laurie
            Williams and Robert Kessler.  This book describes the practices and advantages
      of pair programming.  
         Joel on Software  has a brief and well-written  article on functional programming  in JavaScript, leading to a description of Google's  MapReduce .   
       
            Caring for Your Wrists ,
            by TidBITS Publishing.  A two-page poster with good advice on avoiding repetitive
            stress injuries.   
       
          Typographic Design for Computerized Text ,
          by David G. Kay.  Two pages on the basic principles of typographic readability.  
        A  BNF grammar of Scheme  is part of the formal syntax section of the official
        Scheme definition ( The Revised^5 Report on Scheme ).  
       A  BNF grammar of Java   is also available. No surprise—it's a lot longer.  
      
    Comparing programming languages: An eclectic list of informal references. 
        Programs in over 1000 different languages  to print the "99 Bottles of Beer" song  
         Brief information on 2500 languages   
         History of Programming Languages  site based on the foregoing.   
      
    The Informatics faculty has compiled a far-ranging
     list of books 
    they have found particularly influential.   
   
  David G. Kay ,   kay@uci.edu 
 
</body> 