 withdrawal and readmission @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  policies  


     
 Undergraduate Student Policies 

 
 

 Withdrawal and Readmission 
 Students who are planning to withdraw from the University are encouraged to seek advice from an academic
counselor to discuss the withdrawal and readmission
process. 
   
    
    »</strong>  Withdrawing from UCI</strong> 
 If the decision to withdraw is made  after  tuition and fees
for an academic quarter are paid, a Withdrawal form is required. The form can be picked up in any academic advising office (including the ICS Student Affairs Office), as well as from the Registrar's Office. Bren Students must obtain the signature of the Associate Dean for Student Affairs before submitting the form to the Registrar's Office for processing.  Please note that an ICS academic counselor may sign on the Associate Dean for Student Affairs' behalf. 
 Information on the schedule of refunds can be found on the  University Registrar website . 
 If the decision to withdraw is made  before  tuitions and fees for the next quarter are paid, a formal notice of withdrawal or withdrawal form is not
necessary, although recommended. 
   
    »</strong>  Readmitting to UCI</strong>
 
 Readmission to UCI and the Bren School of ICS is NOT
automatic.  There are different policies and processes for readmission based on the student's reasons for and time of withdrawal. 
 If a student is seeking to readmit after voluntary withdrawal from UCI  while in good standing , readmission will be granted if the student re-enrolls within one year. After more than one year, it will be considred on a case by case basis. The Associate Dean for Student Affairs will make the decision to readmit a student based on additional documentation, including the following: 
  number of completed units while at UCI 
 number of units remaining for completion of general
education and degree requirements 
 grades for coursework taken at other institutions or through ACCESS UCI 
 demonstrated readiness for the academic challenge of UCI coursework. 
  All materials required for readmission petition must be
submitted as a complete package. An academic counselor will attach a summary of
previous course work and/or contract conditions for the Associate Dean’s
consideration. 
There are additional readmission requirements if a student withdrew while on academic probation or after academic disqualification:   For Readmission After Voluntary Withdrawal from UCI While on
Academic Probation  
  For Readmission After Academic Disqualification  
   
    »</strong>  Other Readmission Info</strong> 
 Students must meet with an ICS academic counselor well in advance of the
 quarter in which the student plans on readmitting. Readmission 
applications are processed by ICS academic counselors. 
 For information about fees, procedures and deadlines, visit the  Registrar’s website on readmission . 
 Note that only UC-transferable courses will be considered when determining
a student's eligibility for readmission to one of the Bren School majors.
 
 A readmitted student who has not been enrolled at UCI for
three or more consecutive quarters must adhere to the graduation 
requirements in effect for the quarter in which the student is 
readmitted, OR those
subsequently established. 


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 