 Applet Interactions<body>

     Local Site Map 
   Overview  
  Architecture      Client Interactions  
  Applet Interactions     

     

  Typical Interaction of a Chimera Java Applet  

 This section demonstrates the interactions of various elements of Chimera's
architecture in supporting an applet's access to a Chimera hyperweb. 

           Step one.  A Web browser accesses a Web page which contains a Java
applet.          Step two.  The Web server retrieves the applet and sends it to the
Web browser. In order to connect to Chimera, the applet requires a username.
Since Java restrictions prevent the applet from determining this information
automatically, the applet must query the user for the information. Alternatively,
this information could be conveyed to the applet using an applet parameter.
However in order to be sufficiently general, this approach implies that
the Web page which hosts the applet is generated dynamically by the Web
server. This, in turn, implies that the Web server has, in some fashion,
previously determined the user's name (e.g., via an HTML form).          Step three.  The applet contacts the hyperweb manager on the site
from which it was downloaded and requests the contact information of a Chimera
server running on the site. The hyperweb manager, which tracks this information,
returns the hostname and port number of an active Chimera server.          Step four.  The applet contacts the Chimera server. Note: due to Java
security restrictions, the Web server, hyperweb manager, and Chimera server
must all execute on the same machine in order for the applet to communicate
with them.           Step five.  The applet supplies the Chimera server with the URL
of a Chimera-enhanced website which it then contacts. The Chimera server
requests the contact information for the site's hyperweb server. The hyperweb
manager returns this information. 

 In the diagram above, the Chimera server is shown contacting the hyperweb
manager on the same site. However it could just as easily contact some other
website. The Chimera server is running as an application and does not have
the same network restrictions as the applet. In this manner, the applet
can access any Chimera-enhanced website since it is the Chimera server which
does the actual connections.           Step six.  Having retrieved the contact information for the hyperweb
server, the Chimera server establishes a connection to it. At this point,
the Chimera server requests a list of the hyperwebs contained on the site
from the hyperweb manager. It can then present this list to the applet.          Step seven.  Once the applet has selected a hyperweb, the hyperweb
server loads it into memory and it is now accessible for manipulation.         Local Site Map 
   Overview  
  Architecture      Client Interactions  
  Applet Interactions     

  This page is part of the  Chimera 
web site. 
Send feedback and questions to  Ken
Anderson . 
 </body> 