 Informatics 43 Spring 2009<body>

 

 
Informatics 43 Spring 2009 |
 News  |
 Course Reference  |
 Schedule  |
 Course Project  |
 Code Examples  |
 About Alex 
 

  

 

 Informatics 43 Spring 2009 
   Course News 

 

 

  Check back here every day or so.  I will generally post important coursewide announcements here.  They will be listed in reverse-chronological order (i.e., newest items first). 

   Date Added 
     News Item 
     Tu 6/16 
     The  final course grades  are now available. 
     Su 6/7 
     The  Final Exam Study Guide  is now available. 
     Tu 6/2 
     Fixed one more bug in the  Official Implementation of TPES , in which the data was being correctly serialized to a file after the first time the program was executed, but not on any subsequent run.  Only TpesDataWriter.java in the  inf43.spring2009.tpes.model  package has changed. 
     Tu 6/2 
     Updated the  Official Implementation of TPES  to fix a problem that was preventing data from being serialized and deserialized automatically.  Only CourseMeeting.java in the  inf43.spring2009.tpes.model  package has changed. 
     F 5/29 
     A completed version of  Phase 4  of the  Course Project  is now available, including the Official Implementation of TPES.  Included is an example of the layout you should use for your test matrices. 
     Th 5/28 
      Phase 4  of the  Course Project  is now available.  (Part of this phase is not yet available, because it depends on the Official Implementation, which will not be provided until Friday night, since some of you are still working on Phase 3.) 
     F 5/22 
     
       Two updates today: 
        The  discussion slides  from last Friday's discussion are now available. 
         The  Schedule  has been updated, with lectures estimated through next week.  Note the addition of one chapter of reading, accompanying our conversations about testing this week. 
        
     Su 5/17 
     Now available: The  code example  from Thursday's lecture, along with  Schedule  updates. 
     Tu 5/12 
     Today's  code example  is now available. 
     Sa 5/9 
      Phase 3  of the  Course Project  is now available. 
     W 5/6 
     The  Midterm scores  are now available. 
     F 5/1 
     The  Midterm Study Guide  is now available, as well as the  discussion slides  from today's discussion, and  Schedule  adjustments to reflect the last week or so of lecture and the corresponding readings. 
     Su 4/26 
     Hye Jung's  discussion slides  from Friday's discussion are now available. 
     Th 4/23 
      Three updates this morning: 
         Phase 2  of the course project is now available. 
         The  Official Requirements Specification  is now available. 
         A minor update to the Week 4 lecture  Schedule  and readings, to reflect that Tuesday's lecture didn't quite match what was listed. 
        
     M 4/20 
     Details of the late work policy for this course have been added to the front page of the  Course Project .  We discussed these details in lecture on the first day, but I neglected to include them on the web site until now. 
     Sa 4/18 
     The  slides  from yesterday's discussion are now available. 
     Th 4/16 
     The latest  Schedule  update is now available, covering the next week and a half of lecture. 
     M 4/13 
     The  Schedule  has been updated.  Tuesday's lecture will be an additional requirements elicitation meeting, to ensure that there is enough time to cover the project's requirements. 
     F 4/10 
     The  slides  from Hye Jung's discussion this afternoon are now available. 
     Th 4/9 
     An updated version of  Phase 1  of the course project is now available.  The only change is an additional rule about when we'll stop accepting requirements-related questions. 
     M 4/6 
     The first phase of the  Course Project  is available, along with a  Schedule  update.  Note that a couple of online readings corresponding to the Thursday, April 2 lecture were added. 
     F 4/3 
     We're moving to a new classroom.  Beginning on Tuesday, April 7, and continuing through the rest of the quarter, we will be meeting in the McDonnell Douglas Engineering Auditorium instead of ICS 174.  The meeting time has not changed. 
     M 3/30 
     
       Welcome!  A few things: 
        The first lecture will meet on Tuesday, March 31 and the first discussion will meet on Friday, April 10.  For more information about meeting times and course policies, see the  Course Reference .  For information about lecture material and readings, see the  Schedule . 
         I encourage you to spend some time reading through the material on this course web site.  Notice the set of links at the top of this (and every) page, leading you to the  Course Reference , the  Schedule , and the  Course Project , as well as a set of commented  Code Examples  that will be posted during the course of the quarter when we talk about Java code (which won't be often). 
        
      

 

  This course web site has been validated against the XHTML 1.1 and CSS 2.0 standards.  To ensure that your own Web pages meet established Web standards, visit  validator.w3.org . 
 
     

 

</body> 