 press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Press releases  


     
 Press release 

 
 





  January 27,  2017</strong>  UCI's HyperXite team to compete in Hyperloop challenge at SpaceX headquarters</strong>  				   EVENT:</strong>   UCI’s HyperXite team  is going head-to-head with more than 30 other university-based and independent engineering teams from around the world to determine which has designed and built the best human-scale pod for the  Hyperloop  transportation system proposed by SpaceX and Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk. Pods will be evaluated for speed, stability, braking and smoothness of ride on a 1.25-kilometer track constructed specifically for the competition. 
  WHEN/WHERE: </strong>1-5 p.m. Sunday, Jan. 29, at SpaceX headquarters, Jack Northrop Avenue (between Crenshaw Boulevard and Prairie Avenue), in Hawthorne 
  INFORMATION:  </strong>Media planning to attend should complete the SpaceX  media accreditation request form  by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Jan. 25. On Jan. 29, confirmed media may pick up their credentials between 1 and 1:30 p.m. at the media registration table at the entrance to the competition. SpaceX will provide free parking and Wi-Fi. To interview UCI HyperXite team members before, during or after the event, contact Brian Bell at 949-565-5533 or  bpbell@uci.edu . 
  BACKGROUND:  </strong> HyperXite  has about 50 student team members from UCI’s Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences. They have been working for more than a year on a tubular vehicle designed to travel through a near-vacuum tube at high speeds with great efficiency. The pod is made of strong yet lightweight carbon fiber and hosts advanced systems to help it levitate, carry passengers and cargo, and come to a safe stop. 
 The HyperXite team placed  fifth at a design competition  in Texas in early 2016, thereby qualifying for this next round of competition. “We are proud of UCI’s top-five finish – the highest of any California school – in the design-and-build round and are excited to see what they bring to the contest this weekend,” said Gregory Washington, dean of The Henry Samueli School of Engineering. “This has been an extraordinary hands-on learning experience for our high-achieving students.” 
 We went from a design to an entirely constructed pod in such a short amount of time – especially given that this has never been done before – and we’re just a group of undergraduate students,” said HyperXite project manager Mackenzie Puig-Hall, a senior in mechanical engineering. “It’s really incredible to me that we’ve been able to pull this whole thing together.” 

  
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 