 Reaction Explorer: Synthesis Explorer and Mechanism Explorer Reaction Tutorial System<body>
            
     
         
              
             Reaction Explorer: Synthesis Explorer and Mechanism Explorer Reaction Tutorial System 
             
                 
                    
                       Babel  
                          Mass2Structure                          
                          MolInfo  
                          MSFragment  
                          Pattern Count Screen  
                          Pattern Match Counter  
                          Smi2Depict  
                          Reaction Processor  
                                                                                                
                 
                    
                       Chemical Search  
                          COSMOS  
                          Reaction Explorer  
                          Reaction Predictor                          
                          Virtual Chemical Space  
                      
                
              Home    Reaction Explorer  
         
        
           
        
         
	     Introduction 
	     
		 
		    Reaction Explorer is an interactive system for learning
		    and practicing reactions, syntheses and mechanisms in organic chemistry,
		    with advanced support for the
		    automatic generation of random problems,
		    curved-arrow mechanism diagrams, and inquiry-based learning.
		 
    
		 
		    Available below is just a sampling of the content available in the complete system.
		    For access to the full system content, please get in touch with your
		    local Wiley representative or sign up through
		     WileyPLUS 
		    as they are currently the exclusive distributor of Reaction Explorer
		    for higher-education organic chemistry courses.
		 
	     
             Organic Chemistry Tutorials 
             
                 
                     
                          Reaction Drills : Single-Step Reaction Completion                         
                         
                               
                            Reaction Drills produce a series of (ungraded) reaction equations with one hidden
                            component (reactant, reagent or product) and asks you to mentally
                            "fill-in-the-blank" to test and train your skill, similar to flashcards.
                         
                     
		    
                     
                          Synthesis Explorer : Multi-Step Synthesis Design 
                         
                               
                            The primary interface for solving multi-step synthesis design problems and
                            for freely exploring different reactant and reagent combinations.
                         
                     
		    
                     
                          Mechanism Explorer : Arrow-Pushing Mechanism Diagrams 
                         
                               
                            Reactions support curved-arrow mechanism diagram viewing and exploration
                            to not only show "what" a reaction will produce,
                            but to also explain "how" the reaction will proceed.
                         
                     
                 
             
         
        
         
             Help &amp; Support 
             
                  
                 
                      WileyPLUS  
		    Exclusive distributor of Reaction Explorer
                    for higher education organic chemistry courses.
                    Contact your local Wiley representative to get started with
                    Reaction Explorer in your classroom with full gradebook support,
                    backed by professional content authors and technical support staff.
                      Press Release 
                 
                
                 
                     Unsure where to start? 
                       Tutorials and Walkthroughs                         
                            Introduction Video  
                            Usage Instructions Video  
                                          
                
                
	     
	    
	     Publications 
	     
                 
                      Publications  
                     
                    Articles describing the structure, functions, and usage results of this tutorial system have been published:
                      
                            J.H. Chen, M.A. Kayala, and P. Baldi.
                             Reaction Explorer:Towards a Knowledge Map of Organic Chemistry To Support Dynamic Assessment and Personalized Instruction  in
                            Enhancing Learning with Online Resources, Social Networking, and Digital Libraries, American Chemical Society. p. 191-209, (2010)
                         
                         
                            J.H. Chen and P. Baldi.
                             No Electron Left-Behind: A Rule-Based Expert System to Predict Chemical Reactions and Reaction Mechanisms. 
                            Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, 49, 9, 2034-2043, (2009).
                         
                         
                            J.H. Chen and P. Baldi.
                             Synthesis Explorer: A Chemical Reaction Tutorial System for Organic Synthesis Design and Mechanism Prediction. 
                            Journal of Chemical Education 2008(85):1699, (2008).
                         
                                   
                
		
             
         
        
        
         
             
                
                     Reaction Drills 
                     
                         
                             Reaction List 
                             
                            
                         
                             Textbook 
                             
                            
                         
                             Reaction Subject Category 
                             
                            
                         
                             Components to Predict 
                             
                                 
                                     
                                 
                         
                        
                                        
                            
                         
                     
                
                
                
             
            
             
                
                     Synthesis Explorer 
                     
                        
                        
                         
                             Synthesis Problem                             
                             
                        
                         
                             Textbook 
                             
    
                         
                             Reaction Subject Category 
                             
    
                         
                             Maximum Steps 
                             
                        
                         
                                                        
                            
                         
                     
                
                
                
                  
            
             
                
                     Mechanism Explorer 
                     

                        
                         
                             
                                 Mechanism Problem 
                                 
                            
                             
                                 Textbook 
                                 
                         
                        
                        
                        
                         
                             Reaction Subject Category 
                             
                        
                         
                            
                         
                     
                                   
             
         
     
 

</body> 