 ICS 31 Syllabus • Fall 2013<body>
  ICS 31 &amp; CSE 41 • FALL 2013 • DONALD BREN SCHOOL OF INFORMATION AND COMPUTER SCIENCES • UC IRVINE  
  ICS 31: Introduction to Programming     C OURSE  R EFERENCE   
 
  Instructor:    David G. Kay ,
5056 Donald Bren Hall (DBH) (   kay@uci.edu   )  
   Quick links: 
  Assignments  
  Quizzes  
   
  Piazza (Q&amp;A)   Textbook home page 
  Resources 
  
 
    Course goals:   This course is the first
    of a three-quarter sequence introducing computer science through computer programming. This course will
 broaden your technical horizons, focus on systematic problem solving, and possibly change the way you look at the world.   We welcome you and we hope you enjoy it.  
 
    Prerequisite concepts:   This course
    does not expect any previous experience in computer science or computer
    programming.  If you do have some experience, you will find some topics
familiar but many others will certainly be new to you.  
 
 We do expect each student to be able to navigate
the Windows  systems in our labs, to navigate the World-Wide Web, to download
and read documents in Adobe Acrobat (pdf) format, and to read and send electronic
mail.  Some of our assignments will require these skills.  If you need to
pick these skills up or sharpen them, do it in the first week of the quarter;
speak with us if you need a hand.  
 
  Meeting place and times:     Tuesdays and Thursdays, lecture section A meets 8:00 a.m. to 9:20 a.m., lecture section B meets 11:00 a.m. to 12:20 p.m., both in Engineering Lecture Hall 100.   
   Lab sections, TAs, and tutors: </strong>Each student must enroll in one of these lab sections:  
 
    Lab  
      Time  
      Room  
      TA (Email   @uci.edu )  
      Tutor(s) (subject to change)  
      1  
      MWF8–9:50am  
      ICS 183  
      Namrata Puri ( nspuri )  
      Jeremy Stroman (MF), Ada Guan (W)  
      2  
      MWF8–9:50am  
     ICS 189 
     Mehryar Rahmatian ( mrahmati ) 
     Govind Rai (MW), Jessica Pham (F) 
      3  
      MWF10–11:50  
      ICS 183  
      Rohan Achar ( rachar )  
      Woo Sang Hwang, Joelin Chen (10-11), Jiamin Huang (W 11-12)  
      4  
      MWF10–11:50  
      ICS 189  
     Mehryar Rahmatian ( mrahmati ) 
      Ziqiang Peng, Iris Zeng (10-11)  
      5  
      MWF12–1:50  
      ICS 183  
      Sivabalan Thirunavukkarasu ( sthiruna )  
      Jiayi Shen, Jeremy Rice  
      6  
      MWF12–1:50  
      ICS 189  
      Robert Lim ( roblim1 )  
      Marwan Nazanda, Woo Sang Hwang (12-1)  
      7  
      MWF2–3:50  
      ICS 183  
      Robert Lim ( roblim1 )  
      Daniel Niemeyer, Alissa Nashida  
     8 
      MWF2–3:50  
      ICS 189  
      
       Rohan Achar ( rachar ) 
      
      Jessica Pham, John Torres (MW)  
     9 
      MWF4–5:50  
      ICS 183  
      Kaiser Md. Nahiduzzaman ( kmdnahid )  
      Jiamin Huang (MF, W 4-5), Ryan Santos (MF, W 4-5)  
     10 
      MWF4–5:50  
      ICS 189  
      Namrata Puri ( nspuri )  
      Iris Zeng (4-5), Van Nguyen (M), Jeremy Stroman (F 5-6)  
      11  
      MWF6–7:50pm  
      ICS 192  
      Kaiser Md. Nahiduzzaman ( kmdnahid )  
     Ran Liu, Vincent Chau 
     12 
      MWF11–12:50  
      ICS 192  
     Negar Aref ( naref ) 
     Tony Ear, Victor Hsiao 
     13 
      MWF8–9:50am  
      ICS 364  
      Sivabalan Thirunavukkarasu ( sthiruna )  
      Van Nguyen  
     14 
      MWF8–9:50am  
      ICS 192  
      Negar Aref ( naref )  
      Bradley Cruce  
     
  None of the six scheduled lab hours each week are optional. It is essential that you attend the lecture and lab you're officially enrolled in; the class is too full to accommodate "visiting." Most of your lab work will be done in pairs,
  so the scheduled lab times are the best times to
work with your partner. Because the labs are mostly full, if you want to change your enrollment from one lab section to another, you need to find a person who wants to make the opposite change and the two of you must go in person to the ICS Student Affairs Office as soon as possible, but definitely before the end of the second week. 
 
 Office hours:   You are welcome to drop by my office at any time.  If I'm there and not immersed in something
    else, I'll be glad to chat about the course material or other topics.
    I will definitely be in or near my office during these scheduled hours,
    during which course-related matters will have first priority:  Tuesdays from 12:30 to 1:15 and Wednesdays from 11:30 to 12:20. I may adjust these times at the end of the first week. Of course emergencies
    may come up, but I will try to give advance notice of any change. I'll
    also be happy to make arrangements for other times during the week; "making an appointment" is no big deal (but if you make one, don't skip it  without getting in touch).  The
    quickest and most effective way to reach me is by electronic mail, as described
below. 
 
  Questions and announcements:   You can
 get a response to your course-related questions most quickly by posting them at  Piazza.com .  If you
need to reach one of us privately, use our individual IDs listed above. I will never intentionally ignore a message, so if you don't receive a response, write again; sometimes overactive spam filters snag a legitmate message. Using course-specific subject lines and your UCInet Email address will help your messages get noticed.  
 
   We will also send course announcements by Email
    to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email daily.
    Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
    has for you (your UCInet ID).    If you prefer to read your Email
  on another account, forwarding instructions appear below.   Don't let this slide; if you miss official
announcements, your grade could suffer.  
 
 This course's web page is at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/31    and 
official course Email is archived at    eee.uci.edu   ; follow the link on your MyEEE page.  
 
  Textbooks and software:  Our textbook is  Introduction to Computing Using Python: An Application Development Focus, 
by Ljubomir Perkovic. We will follow the text pretty closely, though we will cover some topics in class that aren't in the book. The text has a   web site   that includes downloadable versions of the programs in the book.  To work around delays in delivering the physical books, three chapters are available for electronic download via the Dropbox tool at eee.uci.edu. 
 The Python software you need for your work (Python 3.3 and the IDLE environment) is installed on every machine in the ICS labs. Because every lab assignment is done with a partner, you'll do much of your work in the scheduled labs. You are also welcome to install Python on your personal machine; we just have to say that because everyone's computer is configured a little differently, we can't promise to fix the installation problems that may come up on your own machine.  At    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/31/refs.html   
  is a list of supplementary resources on course topics, including information about installing Python. 
 
 
    Labs and lab hours:  Of course you will
    need to do some of your work outside of the scheduled Monday/Wednesday/Friday
    lab hours.  Students in ICS 31 may use any of the school's instructional
    computing labs except for times when another course is scheduled in the
  lab exclusively.  See    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~lab   
  for lab hours and other information.   Note in particular that all ICS labs
are closed on university holidays, such as the Friday after Thanksgiving
(but not the Saturday and Sunday).  
 
 Please remember that programming tasks always
take longer to complete than you think they will, no matter how much experience
you have.  You must account for this as you plan your time; we cannot accept
busy schedules or time mismanagement as an excuse for late or incomplete
assignments.  
 
  Course structure:   • Weekly  lab assignments  (30% of the course grade). All the assignments
will be available at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/31/hw/   .
  • Class participation:   Based primarily on participating consistently
and effectively in the lab, including turning in a partner evaluation for each lab assignment. Contributing on Piazza.com can help your score here, too. (10%)   • Weekly quizzes:  Given on line through EEE, available from Sunday afternoon through 11:00 p.m. Tuesday.
(10% together)    Because these are self-graded, you get credit for completing them, whatever your answers. We can't support make-ups for missed quizzes, since all you have to do is read them and submit answers each week on EEE. This is easy credit to get; just don't forget to do each quiz by Tuesday. (The foolish student will take advantage of self-grading to answer "Zot! Zot! Zot!" to every question, giving them no thought.  The wise student will take the time to work through the quizzes independently, recognizing that these are previews of exam questions and  an excellent way to prepare, review, and assess one's mastery of the material before the stakes get higher.)   • Two midterms:  Given in lecture, the first will be on Tuesday, October 22, and the second on Thursday, November 14 (20%, with the second being weighted more than the first). We can't give make-ups for missed midterms, but if you miss one for a good reason (and let us know about it), we won't count it  against your grade.   • One final exam:   On Tuesday, December 10; lecture section A's exam is from 8:00 to 10:00 a.m.; section B's exam is from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. (30%).   
 
   Your TA has primary responsibility for evaluating
    your work; see the TA first for any questions about grading or scoring. 
If that does not resolve your question, then see the instructor.   To compensate for differences in grading between different TAs, we will calculate final grades for each TA's students separately rather than for the entire class as one group. Thus, comparison of scores between TAs is meaningless. 
  Lab scores will be recorded on the web in the EEE gradebook. We will be happy to correct any errors that do occur, but we
  must ask that you bring your TA your grading questions within a week after the
  item is returned; the course moves quickly and we simply can't deal
  with assignments long past.  
  We find that we obtain the fairest grade outcomes overall by not committing in advance to a specific fixed point scale for assigning final letter grades in the course. Thus, it is not possible to calculate your letter grade precisely until all the work has been done. Don't ask, "What grade am I getting so far?"; instead ask, "What more can I do to master the material?" We urge everyone to focus not on letter grades but on learning what's necessary to earn high scores; the grades will follow from that.  You should check the EEE gradebook periodically to make sure your assignment scores have been recorded correctly. EEE also indicates where your score falls compared to other students; if you find yourself in the bottom quarter consistently, talk with your TA or the instructor. 
 We're required to say that in unusual circumstances, these policies may change, but we do not expect that to happen. 
 
  Special needs:  Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation due to a disability should contact the UCI Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to explore the possible range of accommodations. We encourage all students having difficulty, whether or not due to a disability, to consult privately with the TA or instructor at any time.   
   What to do this week to get started in ICS 31:      —   If you do not have a UCInet ID, get one (see    http://activate.uci.edu/   ).    —   Learn how to read electronic mail sent to your UCInet ID (see    http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/   ). If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
      UCInet account, redirect your mail at    http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html   .    —   If you do not have an ICS account for access to the Windows network in
          ICS, get one.  See    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~lab/students/acct_activate.php   . The labs will have temporary IDs for the first week or two; get your own ID some time in that period.   —   On the Web, go to    checkmate.ics.uci.edu   ,
              log in with your UCInet ID, choose "Fall 2013" and "Course Listing," click "Go"
            next to ICS 31, and then click "List me for this course."
            Use your UCInet ID (your Email adddress @uci.edu) for this. You'll submit most of your work electronically; this step is necessary
              to set that up.    —   Sign yourself up for ICS 31 at  Piazza.com  and read a little bit there about how the site works.   —   Get a lab printing key-card if you plan to do any printing in the lab. See   http://www.ics.uci.edu/~lab/students/printing.php  .   —   Give a snapshot of yourself (with your name written on the back) to your
                  TA.  This will help us learn your names quickly.  (This is not just for
                  fun  —  it's a course requirement.)   —   Complete the survey at    http://eee.uci.edu/survey/ics31.f13.q   . 
     Good advice and helpful hints:   
  Make
  every effort to attend each class meeting; we will often cover material that isn't
  directly in the textbook.  It's not fair to ask the TA simply to repeat
  lecture material you missed, though of course the TA will always answer questions about
  it.  And even though UCI Replay recordings will be available for most class sessions, they don't capture everything that goes on in class and they aren't 100% reliable (i.e., some days there will be no recording). 
   Attend your lab section, too;
  you will do most of your lab work there, and you can get a different perspective from the TA than you hear in lecture.
  Don't hesitate to ask your TA to address topics  that will help you. 
  Since most of your work will be done with a partner, your partner also depends
  on your consistent presence.  
   Check your electronic mail regularly; this
  is an official channel for course announcements.  
   Keep up with the reading; you'll need it
  to do your assignments, and the quarter system goes so fast that a few missed
  pages can quickly become a few chapters if you're not careful.  You
  will want to read the assigned sections early so you can ask us about parts
  that aren't clear.   
   The assignments, like all technical specifications,
  require careful and thorough reading and re-reading.  Expect to refer back
  to the assignment often, and check it first when you have questions about
  what's required or how to proceed.  Before you come to lab, be sure
  to read the assignment to get an idea of what's required.  
   Start each assignment early.  Assignments will
  be due weekly, but you'll need to spend some time on them nearly every
  day.  Programming always takes longer to complete than you think it will,
  even if you have previous programming experience.  By starting early, you'll
  have time to ask in discussion section about problems you encounter.  
   If you find yourself having trouble or getting
  behind, speak with your TA or the instructor.  We have lots of ways to help.
  But  never  take the shortcut of copying someone else's work and
  turning it in; the consequences can be far worse than just a low score on
  a lab assignment or exam. ICS takes academic honesty very seriously; for a more
  complete discussion, see our course collaboration guidelines (  http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/31/collab.html  ) and the ICS departmental web page covering academic
honesty issues (   http://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/policies/index.php#academic_honesty   ).  
   Turn in whatever portion of an assignment you
  have completed on the due date.  It's much better to turn in something
  rather than nothing; zeroes are hard to make up.  In some circumstances
  you may arrange with your TA to work further on an assignment after the
  due date, but you must turn in whatever you have when the official due date
  comes.  Likewise, don't skip any quizzes if you can help it; too many zeroes will significantly lower your overall score.  
   Always keep your own copy of each assignment,
  both electronically and on paper; if an assignment should get lost in the
  shuffle (or if a file server in the lab should crash, which has happened),
  we'll expect you to be able to supply a replacement easily.   
    Approximate course outline:   
         Week   
       Date   
       Topics (and chapters in the Perkovic text)   
     0. 
     26 September 
      Introduction to the course and computing  •
    Models and abstraction  
      1.  
      1 October  
       Data/information and operations/functions (1.1–1.4)  
         
      3 October  
     Evaluating expressions • Numbers and strings • Variables (2.1, 2.2) 
      2.  
      8 October  
     Multiple-valued data • Namedtuples • Lists (2.3, 2.4) 
         
      10 October  
     More on programming with multiple-valued data (2.5, 2.6) 
      3.  
      15 October  
     Programmer-defined functions • Design recipe • Arguments and parameters (3.3, 3.5) 
         
      17 October  
      Imperative programming • Input and output • Control structures (3.1, 3.2)  
      4.  
      22 October  
      — First Midterm —  
         
      24 October  
     More on defining functions (3.6) 
      5.  
      29 October  
     More on programming with control structures for selection and repetition (3.4) 
         
      31 October  
     Strings and text processing (4.1) 
      6.  
      5 November  
     Formatting output (4.2) 
         
      7 November  
     Files (4.3, 4.4) 
      7.  
      12 November  
     Control structures revisited (5.1, 5.2, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6) 
         
      14 November  
      — Second Midterm —  
      8.  
      19 November  
     Extended example 
         
      21 November  
      Combining data structures (5.3)  
      9.  
      26 November  
     Dictionaries (6.1) 
         
      28 November  
      — No class meeting: Thanksgiving —</strong> 
      10.  
      3 December  
     Tuples and sets (6.2, 6.4) 
         
     5 December 
       Looking back and looking forward   
         F.  
      10 December  
       Final exam,  Tuesday, sec. A from 8:00 to 10:00 a.m., sec. B from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.  
        David G. Kay ,  kay@uci.edu      
Monday, October 21, 2013 7:06 PM
  
</body> 