 ICS H197 Fall 2007 

 

  ICS H197 Fall 2010 Web Page    

   Note  : the class meets Wednesdays 10:00-10:50am in ICS 243, and
Fridays 9:00-10:50am in SSL 248 with ICS-200.  

  Instructor:  Rick Lathrop     

  Office Hours: Wednesdays, 11:00-11:50  

  Office:
Donald Bren Hall 4224.      

 Phone: (949)824-4021.   

 Email: rickl@uci.edu  

 The course evaluation will be online.  

   Syllabus 
    

   Honors Program Forms      

  Recommended
Books    

 William  Strunk , Jr., and E. B. White,  The
Elements of Style , MacMillan, New York.  

 Dale Carnegie,  The Quick and Easy Way to Effective Speaking: Modern
Techniques for Dynamic Communication , Pocket Books, New York, 1977.  

 Robert M.  Woelfle  (ed.),  A New Guide for Better
Technical Presentations,  IEEE Press, 1992.  

 Robert A. Day (ed.),  How to Write and Publish a Scientific Paper,  Oryx
Press, 1998.  

 Joseph M. Williams,  Style: Ten Lessons in Clarity and Grace,  Harper-Collins,
1989.  

  Some useful links    

 The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (DBSICS)
maintains a  web page , where you can find
information on many subjects, including the  the   ICS Honors Program .
Another useful page describes  research areas  within
the school. Note that you can click on any of these research areas to learn
more about that area; you can then click on names of individual faculty in that
area to learn about their particular interests.  

 There is also  DBSICS calendar 
where you can find out about various events, including some colloquia by
outside speakers.  

 UCI's  Undergraduate Research
Opportunities Program  provides a variety of opportunities. They have
resources to help undergrads find research opportunities, grants for
undergraduates to do research mentored by a faculty member, etc. They also
produce the UCI Undergraduate Research Symposium and the UCI Undergraduate
Research Journal.  

 UCI's  Scholarship Opportunities
Program  helps students find out about prestigious scholarships and provides
support to students applying for them, such as workshops, commenting on essays,
and mock interviews.  

 The  Association for Computing Machinery 
provides a variety of services to computer scientists. One example that I find
interesting is   TechNews  ,
which gives news, several times a week, about various issues related to
computer science. We have a student chapter her at UCI.  

  Some
Lecturing Heuristics , by Patrick Winston.  

 Link to "Searchable Schedule of Classes Page" for  ICS
H197 .  

 

</body> 