 SPIN Charter<body>

30 April 1993 
Revised: 29 July 1993 
Revised: 25 August 1993 
Revised: 01 September 1993 
Revised: 25 October 1994 
Revised: 07 October 1996 
Revised: 05 December 1996                                 
   Southern California Software Process Improvement Network(SPIN)
  Charter                            

 I.   ESTABLISHMENT 

The Southern California Software Process Improvement Network, hereafter 
referred to as the Southern California SPIN, was originally established on 24
January 1992 as an activity sponsored by the University of California's Irvine
Research Unit in Software (IRUS).

 II.  MISSION  

     The Southern California SPIN is a leadership forum for the free and 
open exchange of software process improvement experiences and practical
ideas.  We promote achieving higher levels of process maturity, software 
quality and mutual respect.  Our goal is to enhance skills and support 
technology transition through an active program of networking, publications,
recognition of excellence, and mutual support.

 III. OBJECTIVES 

In carrying out its mission, the Southern California SPIN organization 
acts to accomplish the following objectives within the software community:

  Advance the quality of software;

  Improve software productivity;

  Promote software process maturity;

  Transfer software improvement knowledge and innovation to
    all participants;

   Share lessons learned between participants and other SPIN organizations;

   Promote cooperation between industry, academia, and government with 
     respect to software process improvement technology.
   IV.  ORGANIZATION 

The Southern California SPIN is organized as a Steering
Committee, various working groups, general participants, and individual 
meeting coordinators.  Steering Committee members, working group
members, general participants and meeting coordinators receive no 
remuneration for their services.

The Southern California SPIN is sponsored by the Irvine Research Unit in 
Software (IRUS), an organization chartered by the University of California, 
Irvine. SPIN roles and responsibilities are shared by members of the SPIN 
Steering Committee and IRUS staff.

 A.   STEERING COMMITTEE 

The Steering Committee consists of those SPIN participants who have 
committed to actively take on the roles and responsibilities of the various 
functions necessary to run the Southern California SPIN. The Steering 
Committee operates as a consensus based decision making team with the following
specific roles:  leader, deputy leader, IRUS representative, recorder, 
liaison, working group chairs and members-at-large.  One or more individuals 
may fulfill a specific role. This is not a hierarchically organized team; all 
roles have equal voice in the decision making process.

The Steering Committee meets after the general SPIN meeting.  The
meetings are open to all interested SPIN participants.  Generally these 
meetings occur over lunch.  

The responsibilities of the Steering Committee are as follows:

  Manage the affairs of the Southern California SPIN;

  In coordination with IRUS, generate the operating budget. This budget 
should cover all SPIN- related costs except personnel time;

  The budget must be approved by the IRUS Executive Committee to ensure 
     compliance with University of California Research Unit regulations.

  The SPIN budget funds may not be appropriated if the IRUS budget 
experiences a shortfall.

  Maintain coordination with other SPIN organizations;

  Identify program coordinators for the SPIN meetings;

  Approve topics and speakers for SPIN meetings;

  Approve the establishment, charter, and disbandment of working groups, 
    and selection of working group chairs;

  Elect Steering Committee members to the roles described in 
    this charter;

  Periodically review the operation of the SPIN to determine
    improvements in its operation. This includes reviewing the charter 
    at least annually and reviewing the budget at least bi-annually.   1.  Responsibilities of Steering Committee Leader 

  The leader presides at regular meetings of the Southern
California SPIN and at meetings of the Steering Committee. The leader 
is responsible for assuring the reassignment of duties of other
Steering Committee members in the event of their absence, or in
the event of incapacity, until they are replaced by the Steering Committee.  
The leader maintains a list of current role assignments. 

   The leader must be a member of an IRUS member organization.  The leader 
    ensures that IRUS interests are maintained.

  2.  Responsibilities of the SPIN Steering Committee Deputy Leader 

  The Deputy Leader takes over the leader's duties when the leader
   is not available, and such duties as the leader may delegate.

  3.  Responsibilities of IRUS Representative 

   The IRUS representative is the custodian of IRUS funds.  The IRUS
representative renders an annual report of the SPIN budget within 
thirty (30) days of the end of the IRUS fiscal year and six months
thereafter, plus any special reports required by the Steering
Committee.  The IRUS representative monitors all expenditures against 
the budget and ensures that these expenditures are in compliance
with university policies, regulations and procedures.

  The IRUS representative is the liaison with the IRUS Executive Committee.

  The IRUS representative carries out the desires of the SPIN
Steering Committee in accordance with the SPIN operating budget.

  The IRUS representative is responsible for securing the meeting
site and arrangement of refreshments for the SPIN and SPIN Steering 
Committee meetings.

  The IRUS representative is responsible for producing the meeting flyer.

  The IRUS representative is responsible for maintaining a database
of the current SPIN participants.

  The IRUS representative is responsible for maintaining all literature
pertinent to the mission of the organization, including all Steering Committee
and working group meeting minutes and any available presentation materials.

  The IRUS representative takes over the responsibilities of the
deputy leader in the event of an absence until the deputy leader either 
returns or is replaced by the Steering Committee.  

  4.  Responsibilities of Recorder 
  The recorder is responsible for recording and disseminating Steering 
Committee meeting minutes. The recorder conveys these minutes to the IRUS 
representative.

   5.  Responsibilities of Liaison 

  The liaison is the point of contact for other SPINs, professional
organizations (e.g., IEEE, ACM), and other organizations such as the SEI.  
The liaison coordinates with these organizations to transfer information 
and disseminate information to Steering Committee members.  

  The liaison distributes related information that  the Steering
Committee feels is of general interest to the current SPIN participants.

  6.  Responsibilities of Working Group Chairs 

  Working groups are established by the Steering Committee for the conduct of 
specific, special interest activities.  The chair is approved by the Steering 
Committee. The chair of each working group is responsible for approving all 
members of the working group and for ensuring that meeting minutes are 
forwarded to the IRUS representative.  The chair disseminates the minutes to 
all working group members.  The working group is responsible for developing a 
charter that is approved by the Steering Committee. The chair or designee 
is required to give periodic status reports to the Steering Committee.

  7.  Responsibilities of Members-At-Large 

  Any SPIN participant may petition to the Steering Committee to become a 
member-at-large.  The appointment must be approved by the Steering Committee. 
Members-at-large regularly attend and fully participate in Steering Committee 
meetings.

  B.   GENERAL PARTICIPANTS 

 Participation in the Southern California SPIN is open without discrimination
to all individuals, companies, academic institutions, and government 
organizations who are interested in furthering the objectives of the 
Southern California SPIN.

Membership in the Irvine Research Unit in Software is encouraged,
though not required.  Participation in SPIN does not imply membership in IRUS.

  C.   MEETING COORDINATOR 

 A meeting coordinator is chosen for each meeting by the Steering Committee. 
The meeting coordinator is responsible for arrangement of the meeting and for
providing complete flyer information to the IRUS representative at least 
one month in advance.  The meeting coordinator is responsible for reviewing 
the meeting planning activities with the Steering Committee and for ensuring 
the quality of the meeting.  The meeting coordinator introduces each speaker 
and acts as a time keeper to ensure that the meeting runs according to 
schedule.  The meeting coordinator ensures that adequate copies of the 
presentation material are available at the time of the SPIN meeting.

  V.   TERMS OF ROLE ASSIGNMENTS 

Role assignments must be reviewed and elected by a majority vote at least 
on an annual basis coinciding with the Southern California SPIN calendar year.

 
Any appointment can be rescinded by a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the 
Steering Committee at a meeting where a majority of the Steering Committee 
members are present.

  VI.  PARTICIPANT FEES 

Any fees for meetings or special events are determined by the Steering 
Committee and IRUS. 

Annual IRUS membership dues are handled by the IRUS representative.   

  VII. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA SPIN CALENDAR YEAR 

The Southern California SPIN calendar year will run from July 1 to June 30.

 VIII.     MEETINGS 

Meetings of the Southern California SPIN will normally take place on the last 
Friday of each month at the campus of the University of California, Irvine.  
An announcement for each meeting will be disseminated to all current 
participants at least two weeks in advance of the meeting.

 IX.  CHARTER REVISIONS 

Proposed charter revisions are distributed and announced in advance of a 
general SPIN meeting. Charter revisions must be approved at a subsequent 
Steering Committee meeting, where the approval has been identified as an 
agenda item, by a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the participants in the
vote.  At least fifty (50) percent of the Southern California SPIN Steering 
Committee must participate in the vote for the vote to be valid.

 X.   DISSOLUTION OF ORGANIZATION 

Dissolution of the Southern California SPIN organization shall consist of 
unanimous agreement of all Steering Committee members, together with a 
majority vote at a meeting that has been publicized in advance to all current 
participants of the Southern California SPIN for the purpose of taking this 
vote. 

  
   
Irvine Research Unit in Software  
Department of Information and Computer Science  
University of California, Irvine  CA 92697-3425
  
This charter was last revised on 05 December 1996.
</body> 