 Graph Algorithms<body>
 ICS 163, Spring 2011: 
Graph Algorithms 

  General Course Information 

 Coursework will consist of weekly homeworks, a midterm, and a
comprehensive final exam. Group work on homeworks is permitted;
each student should turn in his or her own copy of the homeworks. 

 The text we will be using is   Graph
Algorithms  , a collection of readings compiled from Wikipedia. 

 The course meets Monday, Wednesday, and Fridays, 3:00 - 3:50,
in ICS 180. My office hours will be Mondays and Tuesdays
4:00 - 4:50, in Bren Hall, room 4214, or by appointment.  

  The final grade will be formed by combining the numerical scores from
the homeworks (20%), midterm (35%), and final (45%). The reader is
Lowell Trott. 

 Tentative Schedule of Topics 
  Week 1.  Web crawler  case study.  DFS ,  BFS ,  Tarjan's
algorithm  for  strongly connected
components .  PageRank
algorithm .  Representation of graphs .  Homework 1, due Wednesday, April 6  —  solutions . 
 Week 2.  Software call graph  visualization case study.  DAGs ,
 topological
ordering ,  transitive
closure ,  transitive
reduction ,  layered
graph drawing ,  Coffman-Graham layering .  Homework 2, due Wednesday, April 13  —  solutions . 
 Week 3.
 Road map path planning  case study.
 Shortest paths ,
 relaxation algorithms ,
 Dijkstra's algorithm ,
 Bellman-Ford algorithm ,
 Johnson's algorithm ,
 A*
algorithm ,
 15-puzzle example ,
 Euclidean
distance  based distance estimation,
 landmark-based distance estimation .  Homework 3, due Wednesday, April 20  —  solutions . 
 Week 4.  Maze 
and  river network simulation via invasion percolation  case
study.  Minimum
spanning trees ,  Prim-Dijkstra-Jarnik
algorithm ,  Boruvka's
algorithm ,  Kruskal's
algorithm .  Homework 4, due Wednesday, April 27  —  solutions . 
 Weeks 4-5. Transportation scheduling case study.
 Euler tours ,
 the Chinese postman problem ,
 the travelling salesman problem ,
 exponential-time dynamic programming for the TSP ,
 approximation algorithms and the approximation ratio ,
 MST-doubling
heuristic ,
 Christofides' heuristic . 
  Midterm Friday, April 29  —  solutions . 
 Week 6.  Medical
school residency assignment  case study.  Matchings ,  stable
marriage ,  Gale-Shipley
algorithm for stable marriage ,  bipartite
graphs ,  Hopcroft-Karp
algorithm for bipartite matching ,
 König's theorem ,
 partition into a minimum number of rectangles .  Homework 5, due Wednesday, May 11  —  solutions . 

 Week 7.  Baseball
elimination  case study.  Maximum flow
problem ,  minimum cut
problem ,  max-flow
min-cut theorem ,  formulating maximum matching as a flow problem .  Augmenting
path (Ford-Fulkerson) algorithm , capacity scaling,  Edmonds-Karp
(shortest augmenting path) algorithm .  Widest path problem ,  preference voting case study .  Homework 6, due Wednesday, May 18  —  solutions . 
 Week 8.  Social network analysis  case study.  Cliques ,  Moon-Moser
bound on maximal cliques ,  Bron-Kerbosch
algorithm  (guest lectures Monday and Wednesday by Darren Strash).
 Clustering
coefficient ,  Dynamic
graph algorithms ,  h-index based dynamic triangle counting algorithm .  Homework 7, due Wednesday, May 25  —  solutions . 

 Week 9.  Register allocation  case study.
 Graph coloring ,
 greedy coloring ,
 intersection graphs ,
 interval graphs ,
 chordal graphs ,
 perfect graphs ,
 perfect elimination ordering,
  lexicographic BFS .  Homework 8, due Friday, June 3  —  solutions . 
 Week 10. Memorial day holiday Monday.  Planar
graphs ; review of planarity-related topics from earlier weeks (graph
drawing, road maps, invasion percolation via minimum spanning trees of
grid graphs, graph coloring and the four-color theorem).  Duality ,
duality of  Euler
tours  and  bipartiteness ,
 Euler's formula ,
 Fáry's theorem ,
 Schnyder's
straight-line embedding algorithm . 
  Material from Previous Course Offerings 

   Syllabus  from Spring 2010. 
  Syllabus  from Spring 2006. 
  Syllabus  and  final exam  from Spring 2002. 
  Syllabus ,  midterm , and  final exam  from Winter 1994. 
 </body> 