 News | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems | Page 5 
 
		   

			  Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  
			 Bren School of Information and Computer Science 			
			 University of California, Irvine 
			  
		   
			  Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  
			 University of California, Irvine 
		 Menu 
			  Skip to content  

			    Home  
  About CML 
   About us  
	  News  
	  Contact Us  
  
  People 
   Faculty  
	  Alumni  
  
  Events &amp; Seminars 
   AI/ML Seminar Series  
	  ML Reading Group  
  
  Education &amp; Resources 
   Courses  
	  Books  
  
  UCI Machine Learning Archive  
  Sponsors &amp; Funding  
  Subscribe to CML List  
  		 

		
			 
					 News 				 
							  Center Member Awarded NSF EAGER Award  				 Standard 			 
		 Research Scientist David Newman has been awarded a $25,000 NSF EAGER Award for his research entitled ‘Analyzing Grant Portfolios through Topic Modeling.’ The goal of this research is to develop and apply topic models to analyze collections of grant proposals and their metadata.    The award will be used to develop tools to help NSF program officers better analyze, visualize and interact with large collections of both unfunded proposals and funded projects. 
			 
	
	 April 1, 2010 		
		
			  Center Members Receive Marr Prize at ICCV  				 Standard 			 
		 A paper entitled  “Discriminative models for multi-class object layout”  by Chaitanya Desai, Deva Ramanan and Charless Fowlkes received the Marr Prize at the International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) held in Kyoto, Japan. The prize is named after David Marr, a theoretical neuroscientist who made profound contributions to the theory of both human and machine vision in the 1970’s.  The prize is awarded to the best paper at ICCV and is considered one of the top honors in computer vision. The authors plan to spend the prize money on a couch for the  UCI Computational Vision lab .  
			 
	
	 October 3, 2009 		
		
			  Distinguished Speaker Series for 09-10 Announced  				 Standard 			 
		 The Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems is very pleased to announce its Distinguished Speaker series for the academic year 2009-2010. This year’s series will bring a set of internationally-known researchers to UC Irvine, speaking on a broad set of topics ranging from machine learning, statistical prediction, and analysis of text, network, and Web data.  For further information, see the  2009-2010 speaker schedule . 
			 
	
	 October 2, 2009 		
		
			  Center Member Awarded NSF Grant to Store and Analyze Semi-Structured Data  				 Standard 			 
		 Michael Carey and Center member Chen Li, professors of Computer Science at the University of California Irvine, have been awarded a  $1.8 million grant  from the National Science Foundation’s Data-Intensive Computing Program. The project entitled ‘ASTERIX: A Highly Scalable Parallel Platform for Semistructured Data Management and Analysis’ will research and develop new technologies for storing and analyzing semi-structured data.   
			 
	
	 October 1, 2009 		
		
			  Center Director Receives 2009 ACM SIGKDD Innovation Award  				 Standard 			 
		 Padhraic Smyth, Professor of Computer Science and Director of the Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems, has been awarded the 2009 Innovation Award from the Association of Computing Machineryﾒs Special Interest Group on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (SIGKDD).  Smyth is recognized for his contributions to both the theory and application of probabilistic and statistical approaches to data mining.  For more details, see the  award citation . 
			 
	
	 June 1, 2009 		
		
			  PhD Students Receive Prestigious Graduate Fellowships  				 Standard 			 
		 Christopher DuBois, America Holloway, and Chloe Azencott have recently been awarded prestigious graduate fellowships.  DuBois, a first-year statistics PhD student, received a three-year  NDSEG Graduate Fellowship , and he will use this funding to pursue research on statistical modeling of social networks.  Holloway, a second-year computer science PhD student, received a  Microsoft Graduate Women’s Scholarship , and she will use this funding to further her research on topic models.  Azencott, a fourth-year computer science PhD student, received an  IBM PhD Fellowship , which will fund her investigation of machine learning techniques for chemoinformatics.  Congrats to all! 
			 
	
	 April 1, 2009 		
		
			  Center Receives Yahoo! Gift Funding  				 Standard 			 
		 The Center has recently received gift funding in the amount of $5000 from  Yahoo! Research  for continued support of the weekly  Seminar Series  in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. The series has been running for over 2 years now with support from Yahoo! and has been a great success with upwards of 40 to 50 students and faculty attending weekly. 
			 
	
	 February 1, 2009 		
		
			  Center Member Awarded Grant to Study Vision Techniques for Satellite Imagery  				 Standard 			 
		 Charless Fowlkes, an assistant professor in computer science, was recently awarded a grant through the UC Lab Research program, entitled "Context Driven Image Interpretation in Satellite Imagery".  The grant provides $488k over three years and is a collaboration between  Fowlkes  and investigators at Los Alamos National Labs.  Their goal is to develop new techniques for image segmentation and object recognition based on contextual relations within a scene. These methods will be applied to performing large-scale visual search and automatic identification of potential threats in satellite imagery, in order to aid nuclear verification and counter proliferation efforts. 
			 
	
	 December 1, 2008 		
		
			  Computational Vision Group Hosts 1st Southern California Computer Vision Meetup  				 Standard 			 
		 On October 3rd, 2008, the Computational Vision group at UC Irvine hosted the first  Southern California Computer Vision Meetup , where researchers in computer vision presented their latest findings.  Participants included faculty from local universities such as UCI, UCLA, UCSD, and Caltech, as well as researchers from JPL and Google.  The Computational Vision group is affiliated with the Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems. 
			 
	
	 October 1, 2008 		
		
			  Center Member Applies Machine Learning to Large Hadron Collider  				 Standard 			 
		 Along with six other UCI faculty members, Center member Daniel Whiteson, an assistant professor in physics &amp; astronomy, is playing a key role in the  Large Hadron Collider , the worldﾒs most powerful particle accelerator.  Whiteson’s primary role is to ensure that data acquisition operates smoothly over 2,000 computers operating in parallel.  Whiteson’s research includes the use of machine learning techniques to sift through huge amounts of proton-proton collision data, in order to look for evidence of the Higgs boson or other fundamentally new particles.   
			 
	
	 September 2, 2008 		
		
			 Posts navigation 
		 

						   ‹  Older posts   
			
						   Newer posts   ›   
			
		 
	 
	 
				
		 Search 
		
 

 

 (c) 2015  Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems 
	  
				 WordPress / BonPress 
	 
</body> 