 <body>

  Deliverables  

 As has been discussed in class, you have substantial flexibility in
choosing the specific form for the content of your deliverables. Below
is a list of items that should be included. 

  Understanding and Plan (First Phase)  

  1. Understanding.  

 Placing this subject in the title was a way to tell you that one of
your major tasks for the current period of time is developing an understanding
of the various technologies and tasks concerned wiht your project. This
includes the tools and techniques that you will use in accomplishing your
task as well as the technologies that you will be extending/enhancing/changing. 

 In this deliverable you should reflect your newly gained by writing
an intrduction to your project that highlights the important points. It
should also include 

 * Sales Brochure - To describe your product to any outside audience. 

 *Description of activities done in support of understanding - like interviews
with the customer, for example. 

 Hint: One of the best ways to gain an understanding, or re-engineering
of a piece of software is to interview the original developer. 

  2.Project Plan  

 You could use a tool like Microsoft Project to help you with this task. 

 I Introduction 

   A. Scope and Purpose of Document (overview) 
B. Project Objectives 

  1. Objectives 
2. Major Functions 
3. Performance Issues 
4. Management and Technical Constraints 
    II Project Estimates 

  A. Historical Data used for the Estimates 
B. Estimation Techniques 
C. Estimates 
  III. Project Risks 

  A. Risk Analysis 

  1. Identification 
2. Risk Estimation 
3. Evaluation 
  B. Risk Management 

  1. Risk Aversion Options 
2. Risk Monitoring Procedures 
   IV. Schedule 

  A. Project Work Breakdown Structure 
B. Task Network 
C. Time-Line Chart 
D. Resource Table 
  V. Project Resources 

  A. People 
B. Hardware and Software 
C. Special Resources 
  VI. Staff Organisation 

  A. Team Structure 
B. Management Reporting 
C. Technology Specification 
  VII. Tracking and Control Mechanisms 

 VIII. Appendices 

 
   As seen above, apart from specifying the team structure (manager, secretary
etc.), write the technology specification, i.e. have for each technology
that you described in your understanding section, one person who is going
to be the team expert in that technology.Similar to how the team organisation
provides an internal or external contact point for resolving issues with
respect to yoru project, the technology chart provides an internal or external
contact point for who is the point man for each technology.  

 These are the deliverables for the first phase. 

 
    Requirements &amp; Documentation ( Second Phase)  

  Requirements  

 This of course , is the full description of what you are going to do.
You've done these before, in ICS 52 and ICS 121, so you have plenty of
"model documents" to draw from, to help you determine how to
structure this statement. Keep in mind that key objectives of a requirements
document are 

 (1) Completeness -- everything is described 
(2) Understandability -- the "customer" can read it and be convinced
that all his objectives and needs are adequately and accurately described. 
(3) Utility -- the information in the document can be used effectively
to help in the design phase (eg. an OO requirements analysis can aid in
development of an OO design) 
(4) No Ambiguity -- every reader will come away with some understanding. 
(5) Consistency -- No contradictions 

 Use diagrams of course , to help give appropriate overviews and understanding.
Note that pictures may well be an essential element of the complete description
of any graphical inetrface. You could use story board techniques to present
usage scenarios. 

  Documentation  

 This section is reserved for documentation you have developed during
this phase of the project. Specifically, if during the course of developing
the your understanding of the various technologies involved in the porject,
you discovered items that were not documented, but which were important,
then you should include that here. 

 Aditionally you should list here the major sources of information that
you will be using during the remainder of the project. 

 0. Introduction 

 Expand your introduction to discuss your specific approaches to the
design of the system. 

 1. Understanding 

 This will basically be the same as in your previous document. Make sure
you describe what steps or actions you took to understand each technology
or software. If you make changes to this section, add text describing why
the change was necessary, and why it more accurately reflects your new
understanding. 

 2. Project Plan 

 This will be an iterative expansion of your previous section.Expand
your project plan to represent how you have accomplished the work so far.
Expand your task network or work breakdown structure to the level of detail
needed to complete this task. Based on the work you have done, revise your
estimates on how much your team can accomplish and deliver. If you make
changes, add text describing why the change was necessary or why it will
improve the ability of your team to accomplish the work you have proposed. 

 3. Requirements 

 This will basically be the same as in your previous document. If any
requirements are changed, added or deleted, make this explicit. Describe
why the requirement was changed/added/deleted and by whom ( customer, developer,
etc. ). Again make sure your requirements meet the objectives of completeness,
understandbility, utility, no ambiguity, consistency. 

 4. Architecture/Module Specifications 

  I. Scope 

  A. System Objectives 
B. Hardware, Software, and Human Interfaces 
C. Major Software Functions 
D. Major Design Constraints/Limitations 
  II. Architecture Overview 

  A. System Architecture 
B. Component Narrative -- what each subsystem means 
  III. Modules/Objectives 

  A. List of Objects within your system 
B. For each module/object, provide a Class Specification 

  1. Name 
2. Definition - what it is/does 
3. Narrative/Comment, How it works. 
4. What are he object's APIs? 

  a. public 
b. private 
c. protected 
  5. Data - What state does it keep, what variables? Who has the access
to it? 
6. How does it fit into the inheritance/with/uses heirarchy? 
7. Constraints - what constraints are there for this object/module? 
8. Cardinality - How many will there be? 
  C. Other useful diagrams : Uses, Composed-of, API's Class-Category Diagrams,
Design Class diagrams, or other useful diagrams. 
D. Design Object Scenario. Pick one object/ module and show the complete
implementation detail of a key mechanism. 
  IV. File Structure and Global Data - how will your objects / modules
be kept, sub-directories, Makefiles , etc. 

 V.Requirements Cross Reference - what objects/modules satisfy what requirements?
Make a table, make a table, make it complete and consistent. 

 VI.Testing Plan - How and when will you test it? 

 VII. Demonstration Plan - How and what will you demonstrate? 
  5. Documentation 

  I. List the documents you have developed during this phase of the project. 

 II. Reference Documents 

 List here the major sources of information that you will be using during
the remainder of the project. 
  Team /Peer Appraisals 

 The following team/peer appraisals will be used in part to determine
appropriate project grades for each team member. Each team member  must
 fill out a team/peer appraisal packet. These packets are dure on the
final day of your presentation. All students must email this completed
form to both taylor@ics.uci.edu and rema@ics.uci.edu to receive a grade
for the class. 

 Please divide 100 points between your teammates according to their level
of participation in your team's project. Do not assign any points to yourself
-- just to your team members. If you feel all members have contributed
equally, then assign each team member 33.3 points ( assuming there are
four members). If on the other hand, if you feel that one member did far
more work than all others and one member was not helpful, you might give
the more active member 45 points, the less active member 20 points , and
the other member 35 points. Please try to be fair. 

 Also comment  briefly  on each team member's performance. Your
evaluation should focus on standard evaluation criteria, such as technical
competence, effort, productivity, creativity, quality, dependability, communication,
initiative, decision making, and leadership. 

 Please assign a number between 1-5, 1 being worst, 5 being best for
each teammate, for each attribute. 

 competence : possesses or seeks required knowledge 
Effort : tries to accomplish assigned tasks 
Productivity : level of work generated 
Creativity : conceptualised usful, innovativce approaches 
Quality : demonstrates accuracy and thoroughness 
Dependability : follows through on responsibilities 
Communication : listens, expresses ideas/concepts 
Initiative : seeks out new assignments 
Decision Making : sets objectives, evaluates alternatives 
Leadership : fosters good teamwork, solves team problems 

 Your Name : 

 1. Team Member's Name :  

 Points : 

 Comments: 

 2. Team Member's Name : 

 Points : 

 Comments : 

 3. Team Member's Name : 

 Points : 

 Comments : 

 You are also welcome to provide comments about your own performance. 

   

     
  </body> 