 
      Dr. Rina Dechter @ UCI
    <body>

  [an error occurred while processing this directive]

     
          
        ICS-175A, Project in AI, Winter 2010         
         grades  |
         home work  |
         lecture notes |
	 projects 
          
          Classroom: ICS 180   Days: Tuesday &amp; Thursday
            Time: 12:30 - 1:50pm
            Instructor: Rina Dechter -  dechter@ics.uci.edu  
              Office: DBH 4232  
              Hours: Tuesday 2-3 pm
            TA: Natalia Flerova,  nflerova@uci.edu  
          	  Office: DBH 4099  
              Hours: Monday 4-5 pm      Check out some of our best projects:  
		 
		    Sudoku madness 
		
		   Rapier: a chess engine 
		   Freshman course counseling system 
		   Board game Go 
		
		   RoboSoccer: automated KeepAway game 
		     Final Announcements  
		 
		 Demo presentation 
		  
		As we discussed in class, the demo presentation is ***not** a slot of 20 minutes meetings.
We will meet in two intervals.  9:30-11:00 (group 1)
and 11:30-1:30, group 2.  The meeting is at 4011 DBH.
  

Each team will have their station in the room and they will demonstrate during  period to student members and to us their system.
See the  assignment below to groups.
Those who did not reserve an interval please *send me an email*.
  

There are a few teams that contacted me and have an exam during the relevant periods.
Only those team that received an explicit approval message can come  at 12:30.
  

During the demo period you will:
1. setup your demo in a desk in a room and when your tern come just show a demo and answer questions.
2. Bring your final reports.  The final reports should have the same structure of the midterm reports but can now be longer, up to 10 pages.
You should also include a user manual as discussed in an earlier message.
There is no need for any power point presentation for the demo. Juts be prepared to show how your system work and answer questions from everybody.
   Final report and code 

  
The final report should contain up to 10 pages and follow the same guidelines as the midterm report, with background information,
 the devision of the work between the teammates etc. In addition to that, it should include summary of all
 your work and the evaluation of the results.
   
The final report should contain a section denoted "User's manual", that 
in details explains how the program should be compiled and run. The 
level of details should be enough even for a user that has minimal 
experience with computers to be able to compile and execute the code. 
The manual should also contain the description of typical program 
behaviour, explanations of GUI features, if there's a GUI, and input 
parameters and outputs, if there is no GUI. The latter is of utmost 
importance - the user must have a full understanding of how to decipher 
program's output results. If the program requires specific input files, 
they should be enclosed.  We are aware that some projects may have a 
problem with this requirement. If you do, please get in touch with us 
and we will address this issue in a case by case basis.
  
In addition to the final report you are asked  to submit both source 
code and executable file of the final program for evaluation.  Please 
submit them to the EEE dropbox.
  
The code will be evaluate as a "black box" - that is if it is not 
compiling and/or not running we will not be able to go further.


   Course Goals: 

         Requirements 

         Students are required to do a project in Artificial Intelligence. Weekly progress reports will be graded.

         Final project: submit a report + code + demo + presentation.  

        Students will be required to work independently and be expected to acquire all the knowledge necessary for the project. They will have to fill-up the necessary gaps in their background. TA and instructor will help with an introductory overview and refer the students to the appropriate literature. In particular, basic knowledge in Bayesain networks and Constraint processing will be necessary.
          
        We will have a class meeting each week on Tuesday. we will have individual/group meetings and TA meetings each Thursday.  

          Grading: 
         
         Final grade:  Weekly project reports, 20%.  Demo-presentation:  40%  Final report:  40%.  

          Projects Ideas: 
         There will be two types of projects. Project of building an AI system that provide advise and ans solve some problem in some area. We will use graphical model frameworks and focus primarily on Bayesian Networks (BN) and constraint networks. Students can choose projects from other areas in AI, such as search and  and planning. The second type is "Research projects". Students will delve into a research question with a graduate student and will conduct empirical investigation pursuing the question at stake.
         
        Students can select one of the proposed projects or may come up with their own idea for an AI project.  

              List of teams and projects  
             Assignments 
		For any assignment that you submit you should always state at the top of the report:
the team number, the names of team members and the project title.       Progress report 1. Due February 2 
		 
		For the first report  should be a two page progress report.  The first half/full page of background on your project,
		including references wherever relevant.
		  
		The second page ahould describe your progress.
		  
		In your progress you should  explain:
		    How does the project  built upon what is available in the literature, and out there.
		    what is the architecture of your project (different modules and who is doing what on the team)?
		   what tools will you use, or have started to use.
		   Is there any data that you need to access?
		   How would you evaluate your project. What is the criteria for success.
		   What initial code you started to develop.
		      
          Resources on the Internet 

             Books 
                 Constraint Processing  by  Rina Dechter, Morgan Kaufmann 2003
            	     Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach , by Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig. Chapter  14 ,  15a ,  15b 
            	    Probabilistic Reasoning in Intelligent Systems, by Judea Pearl, Morgan Kaufmann, 1990.
		       Modeling and Reasoning with Bayesian Networks  by Adnan Darwiche, Campbridge University Press, 2009

            	     Survey Papers 
                 Bayesian Networks Without Tears , by  Eugene Charniak ,  AI Magazine , vol. 12, 1991.    Graphical models in a nutshell     A Brief Introduction to Graphical Models and Bayesian Networks  by  Kevin Murphy 
                

             Bayesian Networks , by  Judea Pearl  and  Stuart Russel . In PDF format.
	   


               Survey on Constraint Processing 
                Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach,  Chapter 5 : Constraint Satisfaction Problems
                Dechter, R.,  "Constraint Networks (Survey)" . In   Encyclopedia of Artificial Intelligence,  2nd edition, 1992, John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc., pp. 276-285.

                Dechter, R., Rossi, F.,  "Constraint Satisfaction" .  Survey ECS, March, 2000. 

              

                ICS-270A:  Lecture 5 

         
                   Tutorials 
              AAAI-98 Tutorial: Learning Bayesian Networks From Data 

        	
                Tools 
            SamIam by Darwiche (see books section for the companion textbook) :  http://reasoning.cs.ucla.edu/samiam/ 
             REES 
           JAVABayes from CMU:  http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~javabayes/Home/ 
           Hugin lite from Hugin:
          http://www.hugin.com 
        	  GeNIe/SMILE from the University of UPitt:
          http://genie.sis.pitt.edu/ 
       
          MSBNx from Microsoft Research:  http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/redmond/groups/adapt/msbnx/ 
          BNT (Bayes Net Toolbox for Matlab):  http://people.cs.ubc.ca/~murphyk/Software/BNT/bnt.html 
       
          Netica from Norsys:  http://www.norsys.com 
	
               More Links 
             The Magnetic Tower of Hanoi paper 
	        Model-based Student Academic Planning paper 
	         Sudoku modelling slides 
	        Sudoku resource 
                  RoboSoccer demo page 
	         An interactive Constraint-based Approach to Sudoku 
                Bayesian Networks and Decision-Theoretic Reasoning for Artificial Intelligence 
	          More links relevant to specific projects see at the  projects page 
	  
         

               Related project classes in other university 
             University of Pennsylvania 
	      Carnegie Mellon 
         

               

             Schedule: 
         
          

            Week  


          Topic  


          Date    
	  Information  &amp;nbsp  
	  Assignment  
                Week 1 


         
             Overview of necessary background in Bayes networks.
        Start forming groups for projects. 
             

         01-04 
	  Lecture 1: Constraint networks overview 
	   Lecture 2: Bayesian networks overview 
	   Project ideas  
	 
                 Week 2 

         
              Presentation of specific projects. Each group provides a proposal for two possible projects it considers. 
             

         01-11 
	  Lecture 3: Building Bayesian networks    Advising first year student  
                Week 3 

         
             Progress report. 
             

         01-18 
	  List of teams and project topics 
	     Report 1 
                 Week 4 

         
             Progress report. 
             
         01-25 
                Week 5 

         
             Progress report. 
             

         02-01 

                Week 6 

         
             Progress report. 
             

         02-08 
		  
	  Midterm report 
	 Midterm presentation  
                Week 7 

         
             Mid-quarter progress report and presentation 
             

         02-15 
	  Presentation order  
             
	
	   Week 8 

         
             Mid-quarter progress report and presentation 
             

         02-22 
                Week 9 

         
             Demo-presentations. 
             

         03-01 
                Week 10 

         
             Demo-presentations. 
             

         03-08 
                Week 11 

         
             (Finals): final report + code + demo-presentation. 
             

         03-15 
           

            
           

    
 School of Information and Computer Science 
 University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3435 
 Dr. Rina Dechter 

 dechter at ics.uci.edu 

  

  </body> 