 
Getting Started With Pine
<body>


  Getting Started With Pine 
  
 September 16, 1994
University of Washington, Computing &amp; Communications 
  

 Pine(TM) is an electronic mail system created and 
maintained by the Computing &amp; Communications group 
at the University of Washington. To help support Pine, a 
 
starter version of this document 
 was created by C&amp;C in 
1994 for Pine 3.9. To meet local needs and conditions, 
modifications may have been made to either Pine or this 
document or both by local computer consultants. The 
local version of this document is maintained by 
 aisi@ics.uci.edu .
 
  

 Pine is a trademark of the University of Washington. Permission to use
this document for non-commercial purposes, in original or modified form,
is granted, provided that the original source of the document is
acknowledged as University of Washington Computing &amp; Communications and
that this paragraph, as well as the notice above, are retained on the title
page of any documentation based on this text.  
  
   Table of Contents 
 
You can view this document by scrolling through it, or you can 
click a line in the following list to jump to that section. 
(You can return to the place you jumped from
by clicking the "Back" button at the bottom of the window.) 


   About Pine 
   About This Document 
   Before You Start Pine 
   Starting and Quitting Pine 
   Writing a Message in Pine 
   Listing Messages 
   Viewing a Message 
   Replying to a Message 
   Pine Folders 
   Saving a Message 
   Forwarding a Message 
   Deleting a Message 
   Using the Address Book 
   Additional Pine Options 
   Pine Can Do More 
   Guidelines for Using Email 
   Quitting Pine and Logging Out 
     About Pine  
  

Electronic mail (email) allows you to communicate quickly and easily with 
colleagues on campus and around the world. The use of email is rapidly 
increasing, changing teaching, learning, research, health care, business, and 
administration. Pine is a sophisticated yet easy-to-use email program that was 
created at the University of Washington with the specific goal of being 
responsive to new email users. Pine offers:
  

   
   On-Screen Menus and Messages:  Pine displays your options in menus at 
   the bottom of each screen, so you do not need to memorize commands. 
   On-screen messages appear on a line above the command menu to give you 
   warnings or information as you make a choice.
   

     
    Online HELP:  Help is instantly available to provide information about 
   the task you are performing.
     About This Document  
  

This document should be read at your computer while you use Pine. The text
that follows does not tell you everything about Pine. It only introduces
Pine's main options and summarizes basic email guidelines. The best way to
learn to use Pine is to explore it on your own. Pine was designed to make
it easy for you to learn to use email: there is information on each screen
and in the online help that shows you what to do or answers your
questions. Try the different options and have fun experimenting with Pine. 
  
    Before You Start Pine  
  

Before you can use Pine to correspond by email, you need to have a userid (an 
account) on a computer and log in. For details, see the computing consultant 
for your department.
  
    Starting and Quitting Pine  
  

 To start:  The details of how to start Pine vary considerably from site to
site.  Consult your local support staff for further information. After
starting Pine, the Main Menu screen appears. Each Pine screen has a
similar layout: the top line tells you the screen name and additional
useful information, below that is the work area (on the Main Menu screen,
the work area is a menu of options), then the message/prompt line, and
finally the menu of commands. 
  

 To quit:  When you want to leave Pine, type  Q  (Quit). For details, see 
"Quitting Pine and Logging Out".
  

 The Main Menu 
  

The Main Menu lists Pine's main options (see Figure 1). The letter you must 
type to enter your choice is to the left of each option or command name. You 
can usually type either uppercase or lowercase letters, and you should not 
press  &lt;Return&gt;  to enter commands.
  

&gt;From the Main Menu, you can read online help, write and send a message, look 
at an index of your mail messages, open or maintain your mail folders, update 
your address book, configure or update Pine, and quit Pine.
 
     
  
 
PINE 3.90   MAIN MENU            Folder:INBOX   2 Messages
 
   ?   HELP             -    Get help using Pine
  
   C   COMPOSE MESSAGE  -    Compose and send a message
  
   I   FOLDER INDEX     -    View messages in current folder
  
   L   FOLDER LIST      -    Select a folder to view
  
   A   ADDRESS BOOK     -    Update address book
  
   S   SETUP            -    Configure or update Pine
  
   Q   QUIT             -    Exit the Pine program
  
Copyright 1989-1994. PINE is a trademark of the University of Washington.
                 [Folder "INBOX" opened with 2 messages]
  
 ?  Help		        P PrevCmd  R RelNotes
 O  OTHER CMDS	L [ListFldrs]	N NextCmd	 

     

Figure 1.  A Pine Main Menu Screen
 

Now that you know how to start Pine, you can explore on your own, or you can 
browse the rest of this document for a summary of Pine's main features. 
  

 Getting Help in Pine 
  

To read the online help, use the Help command at the bottom of each
screen.  For example, at the Main Menu screen, type  ?  (Help). Because the
help text is context sensitive, you never see all of it at once--only the
part that relates to the Pine feature you are using. To exit the online
help, type  E  (Exit Help). 
  
    Writing a Message in Pine  
  

To write a message, type  C  (Compose) to see the Compose Message screen.
  
 
     
  
 
PINE 3.90  COMPOSE MESSAGE                        Folder:INBOX  2 Messages

To	:
Cc	:
Attchmnt:
Subject	:
----- Message Text -----
 

  

  

  

^G Get Help ^X Send     ^R Rich Hdr ^Y PrvPg/Top ^K Cut Line   ^O Postpone
^C Cancel   ^D Del Char ^J Attach   ^V NxtPg/End ^U UnDel Line ^T To AddrBk

   

 

Figure 2.  A Pine Compose Message Screen
  

In the command menu above, the ^ character is used to indicate the Control 
key. This means you must hold down the Control key (written in this document 
as  &lt;Control&gt; ) while you press the letter for each command. 
  

Press  &lt;Control&gt;  G  (Get Help) to see additional commands. To move around, 
use the arrow keys or  &lt;Control&gt;  N  (Next line) and  &lt;Control&gt; 
 P  (Previous 
line). To correct errors, use  &lt;Backspace&gt;  or  &lt;Delete&gt; . 
  

You might start experimenting in Pine by sending yourself a message. The 
following section shows you how.
  

 Writing and Sending a Test Message to Yourself 
  

 To write and send a test message to yourself:  
  
   
Type  C  (Compose) to see the Compose Message screen.
 
   
In the To: field, type your email address and press  &lt;Return&gt; . 
 
   
In the Cc: field, press  &lt;Return&gt; . 
 
   
In the Attachment: field, press  &lt;Return&gt; . 
 
   
In the Subject: field, type  Test  and press  &lt;Return&gt; . 
 
   
Below the Message Text line, type  This is a test.  
 

   If a user Jean Hughes at site  art.somewhere.edu  whose userid is
    jhughes 
   were to compose such a test message, the completed screen would look like 
   the example below.
 
     
  
 
PINE 3.90  COMPOSE MESSAGE                        Folder:INBOX  2 Messages	
 
To	: Jean Hughes &lt;jhughes@art.somewhere.edu&gt;
Cc	:
Attchmnt:
Subject	: Test
----- Message Text -----

This is a test. 
  
  
  
^G Get Help ^X Send    ^R Read File ^Y Prev Pg ^K Cut Text   ^O Postpone
^C Cancel   ^J Justify ^W Where is  ^V Next Pg ^U UnCut Text ^T To Spell
   

 


Figure 3.  A Pine Compose Message Screen
  

   
To send your message, press  &lt;Control&gt;  X  (Send). 
 

   You are asked:
  

    Send message? 
  

   
Type  y  (yes) or press  &lt;Return&gt; .
 

   The message is sent, and a copy is saved to your sent-mail folder. (If you 
   type  n  (no) the message is not sent, and you can continue to work on it.)
   

This test message is very simple. There are, of course, other options you can 
use as you compose a message. A few are summarized in the next section, and 
complete information about options for the Compose Message screen is 
available in online help. As you compose a message, you can press 
 &lt;Control&gt;  G  (Get Help) at any time to see details about your current task.
 

 Hints for Writing a Message 
  
   
 To:  
  
In this field, type the email addresses of your recipients. Separate the 
    addresses with commas. When you are finished, press  &lt;Return&gt; .
    Note that if you type in only the userid (login name) of your
    recipient, the
    Pine program assumes that the "right-hand part" of your recipient's
    address
    is the same as yours (e.g.,  art.somewhere.edu) , unless you explicitly
    enter a
    different one.  Always check the addresses in both the To: and
    the Cc: fields for accuracy and completeness before you send a message.
 
  
     Finding and Formatting Addresses. 
    The best way to get a person's email 
    address is to ask him or her for it. For more information on finding and 
    formatting email addresses on local and remote computers, press 
     &lt;Control&gt;  G  (Get Help) in the To: field.
 
  
     Using the Address Book .
     In both the To: and the Cc: fields, you can 
    enter a person's email address manually, or you can use an entry from your 
    Pine Address Book. See "Using the Address Book".
 
     
 Cc: 
  
 In this field, type the email addresses of the persons to whom you want to 
    send copies. Separate their addresses with commas. When you are 
    finished, or if you do not want to send any copies, press  &lt;Return&gt; . 
 
   
 Attchmnt:  
  
This is an advanced Pine feature that allows you to attach files, 
    including word processing documents, spreadsheets, or images that exist on 
    the same computer where you are running Pine. If you do not want to 
    attach a file to your message, press  &lt;Return&gt; . For more information, with 
    your cursor in the Attchmnt: field, press  &lt;Control&gt;  G  (Get Help).
 
   
 Subject:  
  
In this field, enter a one-line description of your message. A short, 
    pertinent description is appreciated by the recipients, since this is
    what they
    see when they scan their email index. When finished, press  &lt;Return&gt; . 
 
   
 Message Text:  
  
Type your message. To move around, use the  arrow keys . To 
    delete characters, press  &lt;Backspace&gt;  or 
     &lt;Delete&gt; . To delete a line, 
    press  &lt;Control&gt;  K . To justify your text, 
    press  &lt;Control&gt;  J . To check 
    your spelling, press  &lt;Control&gt;  T . To see other editing commands,
     press 
     &lt;Control&gt;  G  (Get Help).
 

     Inserting a Plain Text File . If you want to send a "plain text" 
file with 
    your message, you can insert the file in the body of your message using 
    the  &lt;Control&gt;  R  (Read in a File) command. Plain text files are files 
    created by text editors such as Pico, the editor you use when you compose a 
    Pine message. For information about inserting files, with your cursor
    in the
    Message Text: field, press  &lt;Control&gt;  G  (Get Help).
    Hints for Sending a Message 
 
   
 Sending a Message.  
  
 After your message is composed, press 
     &lt;Control&gt;  X , and then type  y  or press  &lt;Return&gt; . Your message is sent 
    and a copy is saved to the sent-mail folder. If a message cannot be 
    delivered, it eventually is returned to you. If you want to re-send a
    message,
    you can use the  F  (Forward) command.
 
   
 Changing Your Mind.  
  
If you change your mind after 
    typing  &lt;Control&gt;  X ), 
    type  n   instead of  y  to continue to work on your message.  While you are 
    writing your message, you can press  &lt;Control&gt;  O  (Postpone) to hold your 
    message so you can work on it later, or you can press  &lt;Control&gt;  C  
    (Cancel) to delete your message entirely. You are asked to confirm whether 
    or not you want to cancel a message.
 
      Listing Messages  
  

Pine stores messages sent to you (including those you send to yourself) in your 
INBOX folder. Messages remain in your INBOX folder until you delete them 
or save them in other folders. (You will learn more about the INBOX and other 
folders in "Pine Folders".)
  

 To see a list of the messages you have received in your INBOX folder: 
  
   
At the Pine Main Menu, type  I  (Folder Index). 

 

    If you have any messages, they are listed as shown in the following 
    example for the user named "jhughes." 
    

See "Moving Between Folders" if you want to list the messages in a 
folder other than your INBOX. 
 
     
  
 
PINE 3.90	FOLDER INDEX      Folder:INBOX    Message 3 of 3 NEW
 
  D 1 Jan 10  Mu Li	            (486) Proposal
+ A 2 Jan 10  Christine Smith	    (500) NSF 
+ N 3 Jan 11  To: jhughes	    (448) Test
  

  

? Help	     M Main Menu  P PrevMsg  -   Prev Page  D Delete	R Reply
O OTHER CMDS V [ViewMsg]  N NextMsg  Spc Next Page  U Undelete	F Forward
   

  
Figure 4.  A Pine Folder Index Screen
  

The selected message is highlighted. The first 
column on the left shows the message status. It may be blank, or it may contain 
"N" if the message is new (unread), 
"+" if the message was sent directly to you (it is not a copy or from a list), 
"A" if you have answered the message (using the Reply command), or 
"D" if you have marked the message for deletion. 
The rest of the columns in the message line show you the message number, date 
sent, sender, size, and subject. For details, press  ?  (Help).
  

Most of the commands you need to handle your messages are listed at the 
bottom of the screen. You can type  O  (Other Commands) to see the additional 
commands that are available. You do not need to see these commands on the 
screen to use them. That is, you never need to type  O  as a prefix for any other 
command.
  
    Viewing a Message  
  

 To view a message: 
  
   
At the Folder Index screen, use the  arrow keys  to highlight the message 
    you want to view. 
 
   
Type  V  (ViewMsg) or press  &lt;Return&gt;  to read a selected message.
 

    To see the next message, press  N  (NextMsg).
  

    To return to the index, press  I  (Index).
      Replying to a Message  
  

 To reply to a message that you have selected at the Folder Index screen or 
that you are viewing: 
  
   
Type  R  (Reply). 
 

    You are asked whether you want to include the original message in your 
    reply. Also, if the original message was sent to more than one person, you 
    are asked if you want to reply to all recipients. Think carefully
    before you
    answer--it may be that you do not want your reply to be sent to more 
    than 
    just the author of the message. It is always a good idea to verify that the 
    addresses in the To: and Cc: fields are correct before you send a message.
  
      Pine Folders  
  

Incoming messages may quickly accumulate in your INBOX folder. Imagine 
what it would be like to find one hundred messages there. If you use email 
often, this may happen sooner than you expect. How should you organize the 
messages you wish to save?
  

 Organizing Messages With Folders 
  

A Pine folder, like a folder in your file cabinet, is a storage place for
messages.  As you use email, you accumulate many messages and can organize
them into different folders by topic, correspondent, date, or any other
category that is meaningful to you. You can create your own folders, and
Pine automatically provides three: 
  
   
    The INBOX folder --messages sent to you are listed in this folder. When 
    you first start Pine and go to the Folder Index screen, you are
    looking at the
    list of messages in your INBOX folder. Every incoming message remains in 
    your INBOX until you delete it or save it in another folder.
 
   
    The saved-messages folder --copies of messages you save are stored in 
    this folder unless you save them to other folders you create yourself. See 
    "Saving a Message". 
 
   
    The sent-mail folder --copies of messages you send are automatically 
    stored in this folder. This is convenient if you cannot remember whether 
    you actually sent a message or if you want to send a message again. 
   Keeping Folders Clean 
 

Messages--whether they are in your INBOX or your other Pine folders--occupy
storage space, and your storage space is limited. 
  
   
    Check your email frequently to see if you have any new messages. 
 

    Do not keep too many messages in your INBOX folder. A large INBOX 
    reduces performance: it takes longer to display large lists of messages 
    when you start Pine, and it requires more time to move between messages.
  

    Delete your incoming messages right away if you do not want them, or save 
    them to other folders if you do.
  
    
    Routinely delete obsolete messages from all of your Pine folders.
 
   
    You will get a monthly message via Pine that asks if you want to delete 
    entire sent-mail folders (and all the messages they contain) from previous 
    months. To conserve space, it is a good idea to do this. If you choose to 
    delete such sent mail, type  y .
   

 Moving Between Folders 
  

When you start Pine and press  I  (Index) at the Main Menu, you see a list of 
messages in your INBOX folder. If you want to see the messages in another 
folder, you need to go to that folder. The following text shows you two ways to 
go to another folder from nearly anywhere in Pine. 
  

 To access your folders and the messages that are stored in them: 
  
   
Type  L  (Folder List). 
 

    You see a Folder List screen like the following, in which your current
    folder
    is highlighted. (When you start Pine, the current folder is your INBOX.) 
 
     
  
 
PINE 3.90	FOLDER LIST	Folder:INBOX	 3 Messages

INBOX        sent-mail       saved-messages        101class
 

? Help	     M Main Menu  P PrevFldr  -   PrevPage  D Delete  R Rename
O OTHER CMDS V [ViewFldr] N NextFldr  Spc NextPage  A Add
   

 

Figure 5.  A Pine Folder List Screen
  
   
Use the  arrow keys  to highlight a folder. 
 
   
To see an index of the messages in that folder, type   V  (ViewFldr) or 
        press  &lt;Return&gt; .
 
   

Note that this method of moving between folders takes you to the Folder List 
screen, which has a menu of commands that enable you to do such things as 
add, delete, and rename folders. If you simply want to move to and list the 
massages in another folder, try the method below.
 

 To move most quickly to the index of another folder: 
  
   
Type  G  (Goto Fldr). You are prompted for the name of a folder.
 
   
Type the folder name. 
 

    If you forget the name of the folder, press  &lt;Control&gt;  T  (ToFldrs) and 
    select a folder using the commands at the bottom of the screen. 
  
   
Press  &lt;Return&gt; . 
 

    You see the list of messages in the folder.
    Deleting a Folder 
 

 To delete a folder and all of the messages it contains: 
  
   
Type  L  (Folder List). 
 
   
 Use the  arrow keys  to highlight a folder. 
 
   
To delete the entire folder of messages, type  D  (Delete). 
 

    You are asked:
  

     Really delete "folder"?  
  
   
Type  y  (yes) if you want to delete the folder and all of its messages.
 

    The folder disappears. There is no way to undelete a deleted folder.
      Saving a Message  
  

When you save a message, you are given a choice: you can store it in the saved-
messages folder, or you can specify another folder. 
  

Once you save a message, the copy in the INBOX folder is automatically 
marked for deletion so that you will only have one copy. When you quit Pine, 
you are asked to confirm whether or not you want to expunge the copy from the 
INBOX folder. To conserve space, it is a good idea to do this.
  

 Saving a Message to the Saved-Messages Folder
   

 To save a message to the saved-messages folder: 
  
   
    At the Index screen, use the  arrow keys  to [Folder "INBOX" opened with
    2 messages]
    the message you
    want to save, or, at the Message Text screen as you view a message:
 

    Type  S  (Save).
  

    You are asked if you want to save the message to the saved-messages folder 
    or to another folder:
  

     SAVE to folder [saved-messages]:  
  
   
Press  &lt;Return&gt;  to choose the default folder: ["saved-messages"]. 
 

    Pine saves your message, and you see the following:
  

     [Message "#" copied to folder "saved-messages" 
     and marked deleted] 
    Saving a Message to a Folder You Specify 
 

You will find it useful to create additional folders for storing messages on 
particular subjects.
  

 To save a message to a folder you specify: 
  
   
    At the Folder Index screen, use the  arrow keys  to highlight the 
message 
    you want to save, or, at the Message Text screen as you view a message:
 

    Type  S  (Save) to save a message.
  

    You are asked if you want to save it to the saved-messages folder or
    another folder:
  

     SAVE to folder [saved-messages]:  
  
   
Type a  foldername  and press  &lt;Return&gt; . 
 

    For example, to save a message to a folder named "papers," 
    type  papers  and press  &lt;Return&gt; . 
  

    If this is the first time you have named this folder, you see the message:
  

     Folder "papers" doesn't exist. Create?  
  

    Type  y  or press  &lt;Return&gt;  to create the folder. 
  

    Once you have created the folder, or whenever you type the name of a 
    folder that already exists, you see a message like this one:
  

     [Message "#" copied to folder "papers" and 
     marked deleted] 
      Forwarding a Message  
  

 To forward to a message that you have selected at the Folder Index screen 
or that you are viewing: 
   
 Type  F  (Forward). 
 

    A copy of the message opens and the To: field is highlighted. 
  
   
    Enter the address of your recipient and send the message as usual. Note 
    that you can modify the original message if you wish, for example, to 
    forward only a portion of it or to add a message or notes of your own.
     Deleting a Message  
  

You keep your Pine folders clean by routinely deleting messages. There are two 
steps to deleting a message: marking it for deletion, then expunging it.
  

 To mark for deletion a message you do not want:  
  
   
    Select and open the folder that contains the message you wish to mark for 
    deletion. If you are a Pine beginner, this is probably your INBOX 
    folder. See "Moving Between Folders", if the message you want 
    to mark for deletion is in a folder other than your INBOX.

 
   
    At the Folder Index screen, select the message you want to mark for 
    deletion, or simply view the message.
 
   
    Type  D  (Delete). 
 

    If you are looking at the Folder Index screen when you mark a message for 
    deletion, a "D" appears in the left-hand column of the message line. 
  

    If you are looking at the Message Text screen when you mark a message for 
    deletion, a "DEL appears in the upper right corner of your screen. The 
    next message, if there is one, appears. 
   

Repeat this process to mark additional messages for deletion.
 

 Undeleting a Message 
  

If you change your mind about a message you have marked for deletion, use the 
 U  (Undelete) command to remove the deletion mark any time  before  you 
expunge a message. After you expunge a message, Pine cannot get it back.
  

 Expunging a Message 
  

A message that is marked for deletion remains in Pine until you expunge 
it. You can expunge a message that is marked for deletion at any time, or you 
can wait until you quit Pine. Once you have a few messages marked for 
deletion, you may want to expunge them before you continue to work, because 
it is easier to look through a folder index that contains fewer messages. 
  

 To expunge a message: 
  
   
    At the Folder Index screen, type  X  (Expunge).
 

    You are asked: 
  

     Expunge "#" message(s) from "folder"?  
  
   
Type  y  (yes) or press  &lt;Return&gt; .
 

    Messages marked for deletion disappear.
   

Note that you will be asked whether you want to expunge messages that are 
marked for deletion when you leave a folder (other than the INBOX) that 
contains messages marked for deletion, or when you quit your Pine session.
 
    Using the Address Book  
  

As you use email, you build a list of email correspondents. Some of their 
addresses may be difficult to type or remember. You can use the Pine Address 
Book to store email addresses for individuals or groups, to create easily 
remembered "nicknames" for these addresses, and to quickly retrieve an email 
address when you are composing a message. Here is a sample page from an 
Address Book: 
 
     
  
 
PINE 3.90	ADDRESS BOOK	Folder:INBOX	 Message 1 of 3
 
gomez	Gonzalez, George    ggonz@unixz.university.ca
mu	Li, Mu	            muli@u.university.edu
chris	Smith, Christine K. cksmith@art.somewhere.edu
rt	Research Team	    DISTRIBUTION LIST:
		            gomez
		            chris
		            jhughes@art.somewhere.edu
  
		                    
? Help	     M MainMenu	P PrevEntry    - PrevPage  D Delete  S CreateList
O OTHER CMDS E [Edit]	N NextEntry  Spc NextPage  A Add     Z AddToList
  
   


Figure 6.  A Pine Address Book Screen
 

There are two ways to set up an individual address in your Address Book. You 
can add an address manually or take it more easily from an incoming message. 
With either method, you specify nicknames for your correspondents. You can 
also set up a group (list) address in your Address Book, but only manually.
  

 Adding an Individual Address 
  

 To add an individual address manually:  
  
   
Note the address.
 
   
At the Pine Main Menu, type  A  (Address Book). 
 
   
 Type  A  (Add). 
 
   
 Follow the instructions. (Press  &lt;Control&gt;  G  if you need help.)
   Taking an Individual Address From an Incoming Message 
 

 To take an individual address from a message you are viewing or have 
selected in the index: 
   
    Type  T  (Take Address). The  T  command is not visible on your screen 
    unless you type  O  (Other Commands), but you need not see it to use it. 
 
   
    Follow the instructions. (Press  &lt;Control&gt;  G  if you need help.)
   Adding a Group (List) Address 
 

If you routinely send messages to a group, you can create a list address. That 
way you do not need to type each person�s address every time you send a 
message to the group. 
  

 To create a list address:  
   
   At the Pine Main Menu, type  A  (Address Book). 
 
   
   Type  S  (CreateList). 
 
   
   Follow the instructions. (Press  &lt;Control&gt;  G  if you need help.)
   Using Address Book Entries When Composing Email 
 

When composing a message, at the To: or the Cc: (Carbon Copy) fields you 
can enter an email address in any of the following ways:
  
   
   Type the entire email address. 
 
   
   Type a nickname you have set up in the Address Book. 
 

   For example, if your Address Book looked like the one in Figure 6, you 
   could type the following nickname in the To: field: 
  

    mu 
  

   After you pressed  &lt;Return&gt; , Pine would provide the full address for Mu 
   from the Address Book as follows:
  

    To: 		Mu Li &lt;muli@u.university.edu&gt; 
  
   
   Select a name from the Address Book:
 

   Move to the Address Book (with your cursor in the To: or  Cc:   field 
   press  &lt;Control&gt;  T ) and use the  arrow keys  to highlight the name you 
   want. Type  S  (Select) or press  &lt;Return&gt; . 
      Additional Pine Options  
  

Pine offers other options. To use them, at the Pine Main Menu, type  S  (Setup). 
You see a message asking you to choose from the options below or cancel:
   
  Printer --Choose a printer for Pine messages.
 
   
 Newpassword --Change your account password while still in Pine.
 
   
 Config  (Setup Configuration)--Select additional options. 
 
   
 Update --Update Pine. Includes technical notes and PC-Pine information.
  

The option allowing you to choose a printer is especially useful and is
described in the following section. 
 

 Choosing Printer Variables 
  

Pine provides three options for printing. When choosing the appropriate option, 
you should contact your departmental computer consultant for advice. 
  

 To choose the printing method for Pine: 
  
   
At the Pine Main Menu, type  S  (Setup). 
 
   
Type  P  (Printer). 
 
   
Follow the instructions. (Press  &lt;Control&gt;  G  if you need help.)
   Printing a Message 
 

Once you have chosen the printer variables, to print messages from either the 
Folder Index screen or the View Message screen, type  Y  (Print). You will be 
asked to confirm your choice. 
  

Note that you can also use this command to print Pine's online help text.
  
    Pine Can Do More  
  

Pine has other useful features that have not been covered in this
introductory document. Although originally designed for novice email
users, Pine has evolved to support many advanced features. It has become
an easy-to-use program for sending, receiving, and filing Internet
electronic mail messages and bulletin board (Netnews) messages including
multimedia attachments. There is also a PC version of Pine for use with
IMAP mail servers. If you would like to learn more about Pine: 
   
   Try all of the commands at the bottom of each Pine screen, including the 
    ones that appear when you type  O  (OTHER CMDS). 
 
   
    Read Pine's online help often. It contains tips to help you at every
    stage of
    learning Pine. Read about different functions, even those you do not
    use yet.
 
   
    For more advanced information, see the online Unix Manual entries for 
    Pine and Pico. In addition, at the Pine Main Menu, choose  R  for release 
    notes.
  

Your local system managers may have customized Pine to suit specific needs, 
and they may or may not offer all of Pine's ever-growing set of 
configuration 
and personal-preference options. Thus, your local system managers are a good 
source of information about additional Pine features.
 
    Guidelines for Using Email  
  

Electronic mail is a unique medium of communication. Messages can be
replied to or forwarded with speed and ease, and email has the potential
to reach a wide audience. These features can also be misused. There are a
few basic guidelines for the responsible use of email that can help you
avoid common mistakes while you enjoy the full benefits of this
technology. 
  

The privacy of an email message cannot be guaranteed. An email message may 
be forwarded, printed, or permanently stored by any recipient. Email can be 
misdirected, even when you are careful. Do not put something in an email 
message that you would not want read by everybody. And if you receive a 
message intended for someone else, let the sender know. 
  

Email does not show the subtleties of voice or body language. Avoid
attempts at irony or sarcasm. The most effective email is short, clear,
and relevant. If you receive a message that makes you upset, do not
respond immediately, and in any case, avoid "flaming," that is, sending an
angry or rude message. 
  

 Email Tips 
  

As you use email, keep the following tips in mind:
   
    Email is easily forwarded to someone else. Although this is convenient, it 
    is not always appropriate. If you are unsure, ask the sender before you 
    forward a message. 
 
   
    Email replies may go to more people than you realize. When replying to a 
    message, be sure to look at the list of recipients. 
 
   
    Email can be junk mail, so avoid unnecessary proliferation of messages. 
 
   
    Email takes up computer space, so delete messages you no longer need. 
 
   
    The integrity of an email message cannot be guaranteed. If a received 
    message seems out of character for the sender, double-check before taking 
    it seriously. 
 
   
    Email is meant for informal correspondence as well as scholarly,
    scientific,
    and clinical communications. You should not use email for official record 
    purposes where a memo would be required (e.g., personnel actions, 
    organization changes, contracts, and policy statements).
 
   
    Email should not be considered private. Confidential information should 
    not be sent by email.
     Quitting Pine and Logging Out  
  

 To quit Pine: 
   
    At almost any place in Pine, type  Q  (Quit). 
 

    You are asked:
  

     Really quit pine? 
  
   
    Type  y  (yes) or press  &lt;Return&gt;  to quit. 
 
   
It is a good idea to log off your computer whenever you are through with it or 
when you must leave it unattended.

</body> 