 Fall Quarter 2016 Week 4: Mentorship Reveal – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         
         
             

                            
                 Fall Quarter 2016 Week 4: Mentorship Reveal 
                          
                                
                                         

            
               News    by Diana Sandil 

            
                        on 10/18/2016 

                                
                                
                                  On October 17th, WICS had their mentorship reveal, which consisted of 54 pairs! Mentors were given nametags, and the mentees were given a mission to find the balloon with their name on it, pop the balloon and then search for their mentor. The popping noises were pretty loud, but it made the atmosphere lively as the mentees were pretty anxious about who were the mentor was and vice versa. After everyone found their mentee/mentor, they were given the task to talk with one another and get to know each other, then mingle with another pair of mentors/mentees and introduce themselves to each other. This was a good idea so pairs can bounce off ideas from one another on how often to meet with your mentee/mentor, and possibly even have group bondings. Everyone was satisfied with meeting their match, so thanks Samantha Applebaum, who is the one in charge of the Mentorship Program and matching each pair! You did a wonderful job!  
   Share this:        Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)        
 
	  Related  
 
                                  

                             
         
     

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 

	</body> 