 
	adrianoc – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
		
 	   	  		 Author Archive 
 	  
				 
				  Fernando and his team won best presentation at iConference  

				 
                	 March 28, 2015   “Racial Violence Archive: Public Information System on Incidents of Violence during the Civil Rights Period” by Fernando Spanghero, Hosub Lee, Michael Bellato, Sowmya Jain,  Roeland Singer-heinze, Ya-Wen Lin, Sunakshi Gupta, and Geoff Ward. The faculty Sponsors were Alfred Kobsa and Geoff Ward. Here’s a teaser: http://owl.li/KPXjN 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Fernando and his team won best presentation at iConference    

			 

				 
				  Paper accepted in MSR-2015!  

				 
                	 March 19, 2015   Congratulations Lee!! L. Martie and A. van der Hoek, “Sameness: An Experiment in Code Search”, Proceedings of the 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Paper accepted in MSR-2015!    

			 

				 
				  Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams?  

				 
                	 March 19, 2015   We have just categorized 441 comments Lee Martie collected in his latest experiment with CodeExchange. It took 1h15min for a crowd of nine people to do the job! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams?    

			 

				 
				  We won the Reddit Hackathon!  

				 
                	 February 9, 2015   The competition happened on Jan 10th and is part of a new data science initiative aimed at coordinating UCI scientists who are working on various aspects of data science. Our team was composed by Christian Adriano (SDCL), Vijay Palepu (Spider Lab), and Rianne Conijn (visitor Master student). 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on We won the Reddit Hackathon!    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Fernando  

				 
                	 February 6, 2015   Welcome Fernando! Fernando Spanghero is a new master student joining our research group. His interested in software design, more specifically in developing sketching tools. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Fernando    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Martín  

				 
                	 February 6, 2015   Welcome Martín! Martín Medina is a new master student joining our research group. He has work experience in software development and he will be working with Lee Martie in CodeExchange project. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Martín    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Consuelo  

				 
                	 October 8, 2014   Welcome Consuelo! Consuelo Lopez is a new master student joining our research group. She has work experience in software quality and she is currently interested in developing tools for software design. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Consuelo    

			 

				 
				  Thesis Defense Congratulations  

				 
                	 August 22, 2014   Micky and Lucy have graduated cum laude with their M.S. degrees from the University of Amsterdam. The research they performed in SDCL uncovered interesting aspects of crowdsourcing software design. We are hard at work on a paper summarizing their findings. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Thesis Defense Congratulations    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Gleiph  

				 
                	 July 13, 2014   We have a new member in SDCL – Gleiph Ghiotto. Gleiph is a 3rd year PhD student from Fluminense Federal University. His advisor is professor Leonardo Murta. Gleiph will spend six months in our lab investigating merging and diffing approaches in open source repositories. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Gleiph    

			 

				 
				  Visitors from The Netherlands  

				 
                	 April 8, 2014   Luxi and Micky are master students from the University of Amsterdam. They will spend four months with us researching how to crowdsource software design activities. Welcome! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Visitors from The Netherlands    

			 

		        
		         
              « Previous Page  
              Next Page »  
              
         
                
	 
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 