 ICS 10 Course Reference<body>
 Summer 2015 
 —  Informatics Department   —   Bren School of ICS  —  UC Irvine  
ICS 10 Course Reference How Computers Work 
 
   Instructor:    David G. Kay ,
  5056 Donald Bren Hall
(  kay@uci.edu  ). TA:   Yubo Kou  (  yubok@uci.edu  ).  
  Quick links:    
 Assignments     Blown to Bits  book 
 Piazza Q&amp;A (public) 
  Email archive 
 Resources  
  Course goals and learning outcomes:   These days, everybody has to make decisions about computer systems and information technology. What computer or cellphone should you (or your company) buy? Whom should you hire to design your web site or to set up a network for your business? What precautions should you take before doing online banking from your cellphone or posting pictures on Facebook? How do you decide which way to vote on ballot propositions that relate to the internet? 
 Because technology changes rapidly, the best answers to these questions won't be the same next year as they are today. Your best strategy for making good decisions over the longer term is to know not just the current details but the underlying concepts of computing; they'll have a longer "shelf life." 
This course looks "under the hood" at modern computing systems, not because most students will become computer professionals and have careers working under the hood, but because gaining some concrete knowledge about how computers work is the best way to learn those underlying, long-shelf-life concepts. 
 
   Prerequisite courses and concepts: 
  This course was designed for majors outside of the School of Information and Computer Sciences; it has no academic prerequisites.   We do expect you to have these basic
  computing skills:  Searching and browsing the Web, reading and sending Email,
  downloading files, viewing and printing PDF (Adobe Acrobat) documents, creating simple documents in a conventional word processor (like Word or Pages or NeoOffice or Google Docs), and
  creating or saving documents for Email and other purposes in plain ASCII
text form (not HTML or Word attachments). If you need to brush up on any of these, let us know and we'll help.  
 
 Meeting place and times:   Lecture meets
Tuesdays and Thursdays from 9:00 to 11:50 a.m. in Steinhaus Hall 174. 
 The computer screen and audio of each class will be recorded and available through UCI Replay; after each class, you will receive electronic mail with the link for access.  The UCI Replay process is not 100% reliable; some classes may end up not being recorded and classes where we use the whiteboard or overhead projector will not have those visuals captured at all. Practically, this means you should plan to attend class in person and not count on recordings  being available. UCI Replay recordings are good as a backup, but they're no substitute for regular in-person attendance. 
 
 Office hours:  

If you'd like to chat about anything individually, let's touch base after class on Tuesday or Thursday.  If that's not a good time to have the conversation, I'll be
  happy to make arrangements for other times during the week; "making an appointment" is no big deal (but if you make one, don't skip it without getting in touch).  The quickest
and most effective way to reach me is by electronic mail; the quickest way to get most course-related questions answered is on piazza.com. The TA will schedule office/lab hours as needed. 
 
 Questions and announcements:   We'll use piazza.com for public course-related questions. If you have an individual issue you'd like to raise with the instructor and TA, send us electronic mail to the
address   ics10@uci.edu  . We will never intentionally ignore a message, so if you don't receive a response, write again; sometimes overactive spam filters snag a legitimate message.  Using course-specific subject lines and your UCInet Email address will help your messages get noticed.
 
 
We will also send course announcements by Email
to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email regularly.
 Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
has for you (your UCInet ID).  If you prefer to read your Email on another
account, you should set your UCInet account to forward your Email to your
preferred account (see how in the Advice section below). Don't let this slide; if you miss official announcements, your grade
could suffer.   
 
This course has   a home page at   http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/10/  ; there's an archive of official course Email at   http://eee.uci.edu/15s/w3m3/36540  . 
 
 Readings and course materials:   
There is no single textbook that covers all the course material.  We may assign readings from a variety of sources, nearly all of them available on line.  One source of readings may be  Blown to Bits: Your Life, Liberty, and Happiness after the Digital Explosion,  by Hal Abelson, Ken Ledeen, and Harry Lewis; the full text is available for free on line at   www.bitsbook.com  .
 
 
 Course structure: 
   Assignments  
(35% of the course grade), some with pencil and paper and some on the computer  in the lab. Typically the next assignment will show up on the assignments page right around the time the previous one is due;  it will be up to you to find and read them.
    Class participation  (10%). This mostly involves showing up to class and participating actively in partnered assignments.  It also helps to give good answers on Piazza occasionally.  One midterm,  given in class on Thursday, August 20 (20%)
    One final exam,  on Tuesday, September 8, from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. (35%) 
 
Your TA has primary responsibility for grading your work; go to him or her first for any questions about grading or scoring.  If that does not resolve your question, then see the instructor.  The TA and instructor will be happy to correct any errors that do occur, but we must ask that you bring us your grading questions with a week after the item is returned; the course moves quickly and we imply can't deal with assignments long past.
 
 
We determine final grades neither on a formal curve (with equal numbers of As and Fs, Bs and Ds, and so on) nor on a straight, fixed scale.  Grades below C are rare in this course; they result mostly from not completing assignments or otherwise not being engaged with the course. We recommend that you focus not on letter grades but on learning what's necessary to earn high scores; the grades will follow from that. 
 
We're required to say that in unusual
circumstances, these criteria could change, but we do not expect that to
happen. 
  Special needs:  Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation due to a disability should contact the UCI Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to explore the possible range of accommodations. We encourage all students having difficulty, whether or not due to a disability, to consult privately with the instructor at any time. 
 
 What you must do right now to get started
in ICS 10:
  — If you do not have a UCInet ID,
get one.  See   http://activate.uci.edu/  . 
 
— If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
UCInet account (which is a good idea, since if your UCInet account's mailbox fills up, you stop receiving mail), redirect your mail at   http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html   
— Complete the  ICS 10 Questionnaire  at  eee.uci.edu  (by the end of the first week). 
— Sign yourself up for  ICS 10 on Piazza.com ; that's where course-related questions will mostly be answered. 
  — Go to  checkmate.ics.uci.edu , log in with your UCInet ID, choose "Course Listing" and "Summer II 2015," click "Go" next to ICS 10, and then click "List me for this course." You'll submit most of your work electronically; this step is necessary to set that up.  
 
 Good advice and helpful hints:  
 
Check your electronic mail regularly; this
is an official channel for course announcements. When sending course-related mail, start the subject line with "ICS 10" or "How Computers Work". 
 
Attendance in class is essential; concepts
and issues will come up in class that aren't easily available from other sources, and those concepts will find their way into the assignments and  exams.  Also, 
class participation in various forms will count towards the course grade. 
 Read each assignment with care, more than once. Reading technical specifications requires different skills than reading non-technical material; acquiring those skills is one goal of this class and one reason it provides General Education credit. Expect to refer back to the assignment often, and check it first when you have questions about what's required or how to proceed. 
 Don't expect to complete every assignment in one sitting, especially not the night before it's due. If you start early, you'll have plenty of time to ask questions. 
 
Always keep your own copy of each assignment,
both electronically and on paper; if an assignment should get lost in the
shuffle (or if the Checkmate machine should crash), we'll expect you to be able to supply a replacement easily. 
 
If you find yourself having trouble or getting
behind, speak with the instructor or your TA.  But  never  take the shortcut
of copying someone else's work and turning it in; the consequences can
be far worse than just a low score on one assignment.  The School of ICS 
takes academic honesty very seriously; for a more complete discussion, see
the ICS academic honesty policy:
  http://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/policies/index.php  . 
 
 Approximate course outline: 
        
 Week  
 
 Date  
 
   Topic  
         1.
 
 4 August 
 
   Introduction to the course, computers, and information  
   
 
    
 Introduction to Snap/BYOB/Scratch 
     
  6 August  
  Overview of the internet   
   
    
    
  Internet operation and implications  
   
2. 
  11 August  
 The processor (CPU): fundamental machine operations 
   
    
     
  The processor (continued)   
   
      
    13 August  
    Software and programming  
     
  
      
  
  Evolution of programming languages and tools   
   3.
 
 18 August 
  Algorithms and efficiency  
     
     
  
   Representing information digitally   
  
      
   20 August 
    Midterm</strong> 
        
       
    Redundancy and compression  
     4. 
   25 August 
    Secondary storage and peripheral devices  
        
      
    Operating systems, networks, security  
       
    
     27 August 
    
    Human-computer interaction  
        
       
    Information visualization  
      5.  
    1 September  
    Legal and social issues  
      
       
    Legal and social issues (continued)  
      
    3 September  
   Future trends and developments 
       
      
    
     Epilogue and review 
    
    Tuesday  
    8 September  
     Final Exam, </strong>Tuesday 29 July, 9:00 - 11:00 a.m.  
     </body> 