 Kay Family Foundation funds new mobile technology lab @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Cultivating collaboration 

 
 

  Kay Family Foundation funds new mobile technology lab  


 
  
 
What served last fall as a launch pad for the nation’s first-ever 
 Med AppJam  is now a schoolwide resource for Bren School of ICS majors. 
 
 
 Kay Family Foundation Innovation Lab  — featuring Apple TVs, a PolyVision smartboard, and MacBook Airs and iPads available for checkout by students — is the first of its kind on the UC Irvine campus and was specifically designed to encourage teamwork. 
 
 
“Computing at UC Irvine is highly collaborative,” said Dean Hal Stern at the lab’s grand opening in February. “I’m very excited about this space because it provides an environment where students can learn and reinforce that mindset. I want to thank Kay Family Foundation for making this lab possible.”
 
 
 
Students, faculty, staff, alumni and supporters attended the event, which included remarks by Stern and members of the ICS Student Council.  
 
 
“We used this space in fall 2012 to launch Med AppJam, a collaboration between ICS and the medical school,” said computer science major Nithin Jilla. “Nearly 20 teams used it to develop iOS applications, and the tournament was really successful. In the future this space will be used for more competitions and projects. We hope that professors will incorporate it into mobile-based classes as well.”
 










 
 PHOTO GALLERY</strong>


 
 
ICS Student Council vice president Audrey Auyang offered welcome remarks at the Kay Family Foundation Innovation Lab grand opening event.
 


 
 
Dean Hal Stern thanked Kay Family Foundation representatives for their support of the Bren School and its students.
 


 
  Students congregated at one of five collaboration stations to try out the lab equipment.
 


 
  Bren School students may check out iPads and MacBook Airs available through the lab.
 


 
  The grand opening event drew a crowd of students, faculty, staff and friends.
 


 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 