 Informatics 117:  Initial Survey<body>
 
 Informatics 117: 
Project in Software System Design 

Winter Quarter, 2013  

 
Please print, fill in the form below, and hand it in on Thursday.
This information is confidential and will   not   affect your grade in
any
way, unless you do not fill it out or it is discovered that you have been
dishonest in your responses.   The information will be used to assign you to
an appropriate project team.

 Personal Information 

   Name/Student Number:   

 Planning on going to grad school?  
  Academic Progress 

   Are you officially enrolled in this class as of today?   

 Circle the Informatics classes you have completed:  101 102 113   122 123  124 131 151   
 Circle the CS classes you have completed:    122B  131 137 141    
  Informatics or CS courses currently enrolled in this quarter: 
  Professional Experience 

  Have you ever worked on a software development project apart from course
  work? 
	If so,  briefly</strong> describe the team size and task:      Programming experience:
  Languages with which you are familiar (i.e., have used effectively):    Languages in which you have written a program over 1000 lines:    For what application domains have you written software:    Software development tools with which you are familiar
(i.e., have used effectively):     Operating systems with which you are familiar:       Team Member Preferences (optional) 

   List one or two people in the course
with whom you would  like</strong> to work on the project:     List anyone in the course with whom you absolutely could  not </strong>work:      Project Preferences 
 Please list, in rank order of preference (with #1 being your top-preference) the projects that you would most like to work on. Note: there is no guarantee that you will be assigned to any one of these.... 
 1. 
 2. 
 3. 
 4. 
 Availability 
 NOTE:  since everyone   must   register for the discussion section
      you WILL be available to meet with your team at that time. Failure to meet
      this requirement may result in dismissal from the class.   Please initial here to indicate you have read, understood, and agree to this requirement:     
   
</body> 