 Venkatasubramanian presents SmartAmerica project at White House<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Venkatasubramanian presents SmartAmerica project at White House 

 
 

 
  



  June 11, 2014  
 
Computer science professor  Nalini Venkatasubramanian</strong> is representing UC Irvine and the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the 
 SmartAmerica Expo  
in Washington, D.C. today. An initiative of the White House and the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the SmartAmerica Challenge asked scholars to submit innovative ideas for cyber-physical systems (CPS) and the Internet of Things (IoT), and show how these systems can create jobs, new business opportunities and socio-economic benefits for the United States.
 
 
Yesterday, the White House hosted an event with select SmartAmerica Challenge teams from across the country. At the event, Venkatasubramanian spoke about her team's project and the value of the Internet of Things. Today, all 24 teams, with members from more than 100 organizations, are coming together at the Washington, D.C. convention center to see demonstrations and hear speakers from the White House, government agencies, private industry and U.S. universities.
 
 
Venkatasubramanian is attending the expo as a member of the team that developed 
 SCALE: Safe Community Alert Network (a.k.a. Public Safety for Smart Communities) . 
Comprising representatives from UCI, MIT, IBM, Twilio, SigFox, Schneider Electric, Montgomery County (Md.), and the Department of Homeland Security, the SCALE network will use low-cost sensor networks to provide communication, emergency response and other functions to the general public. The team will be setting up a demonstration site at a housing development in Montgomery County using sensors and analysis tools developed at UCI.
 
 
The team has developed CPS platforms that are scalable, flexible, inexpensive and easy to deploy/manage at a community wide scale and design mechanisms for creating resilient and actionable situational awareness for the safety of the public. This will help in overcoming a particularly troubling aspect of the “digital divide”: such technologies are often only available to those with the ability to afford it and the expertise to set up and manage them. 
 
 
Using SCALE’s advanced sensing, communication and actuation technology, an elderly, homebound resident would no longer need to fear a fall. Families would no longer fall victim to a smoke detector with a dead battery.
 
 
“The SCALE project enables a new, open ecosystem for cyber-physical systems and the Internet of Things, which allows academic, industry and government partners to work together to creating innovative new technologies for the benefit of all,” Venkatasubramanian says.
 



  
—	Story by Ted B. Kissell 
—	Photo by Robert Farmer 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 