 Repository - GraphModAlg@UCI  


 
 Search: 
 

     
 


   Repository  
  

  
 
 Wiki 

   Main_Page    RecentChanges    FindPage    HelpContents    Repository  
  
 
 Page 
   Immutable Page    Comments    Info    Attachments   

 
     More Actions: 
     

   
 
 User 
   Login    
  
   
   
  Problem repository 
   Here we provide a small repository of problem instances. For instance, these can be used as benchmarks to compare algorithm performance and results or might just get you started when trying out the respective  algorithms .       
  P(e) 
   Several  P(e)  problem instances were provided for the  inference competition  at UAI 2006. See their webpage for the original  XBIF files  and  information  explaining the problems' nature.       Available  locally , we have converted these problem instances to the  Ergo_file_format  for use with  our algorithms .       
  MPE 
   Several  MPE  problem instances were provided for the  inference competition  at UAI 2006. See their webpage for the original  XBIF files  and  information  explaining the problems' nature.       Available  locally , we have converted these problem instances to the  Ergo_file_format  for use with  our algorithms .       Other  MPE  problem instances available locally (in the  Ergo_file_format ):        CPCS : CPCS medical diagnosis instances.        Grids :  n  x  n  Grid networks, randomly generated with some determinism.        Iscas89 : Bayesian networks derived from digital circuits.        Linkage : Genetic linkage instaces.         
  WCSP 
   Several  WCSP  problem instances are available locally, provided in the  WCSP_file_format :        Celar6 : Radio link frequency assignment problems.        Iscas89 : Weighted CSPs derived from digital circuits.        Mastermind : Instances from the well-known game by the same name.        Spot5 : Instances of the daily photograph scheduling problem of earth observation satellites.         
  0/1 Integer Linear Programs (0/1 ILP) 
   Several  0/1 ILP  problem instances are available locally, provided in the  MPS_file_format :          Auction : Randomly generated combinatorial auction problem instances.        Dubois :  MAX-SAT  problem instance.        MIPLIB : A few problem instances from MIPLIB 3.0 (see  here  for more).        UWLP : Randomly generated instances of the uncapacitated warehouse location problem.          Repository  (last edited 2008-05-07 17:25:57 by   LarsOtten  ) 

  
  
   MoinMoin Powered    Python Powered    GPL licensed    Valid HTML 4.01  
  </body> 