 patrick hanratty spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Patrick Hanratty spotlight 

 
 

  Father of CAD/CAM </strong>
 
 
  
Patrick Hanratty
 
 
Sometimes we are motivated by pride. Other times, we are motivated by love. At 71 years of age, both motivate Patrick Hanratty still.
 “Since I have always been a purveyor of 3-D systems, it got to be a little embarrassing that after 30 years of work, 60 percent of the world is still using 2-D,” laughed Hanratty, founder and CEO of Manufacturing and Consulting Services (Scottsdale, Ariz.). 
 “So what I have been working on is automating 2-D drawings to 3-D solids.” “Basically,” he continued, “it has become my labor of love.” 
 His plan is ambitious: to take the entire design process that people use for designing an array of products: golf clubs, watchcases, guns, airplanes, cars, computer housing – and simplify it. He hopes to cut the training time of designers from six months or more to a day or two. 
  DOING THE IMPOSSIBLE</strong> 
 “It was actually declared mathematically impossible (to automate the rendering of 2-D drawings into 3-D) by New York State University (SUNY),” explained Hanratty. “And I thought, ‘Well, that’s a good challenge. I like that.’ ” 
 
 Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.
 
 Hanratty credits artificial intelligence practices that he learned while an ICS Ph.D. student at UC Irvine for providing the foundation for his project. His software not only is able to perform character recognition but also can identify the different annotations associated with the drawing – and that is where the real meat of the design is.  
 The first iteration of Hanratty’s most recent product went recently into beta testing, and the initial response is positive. 
 “It has been a very exciting project,” said Hanratty. “I think I’ve succeeded in something that nobody has been able to do before and it has given me a lot satisfaction.” 
  CAD’s EVOLUTION</strong> 
 Success is somewhat commonplace for the trailblazing Hanratty. Anointed the ‘Father of CAD/CAM’ for his pioneering work in computer-aided design and manufacturing, industry analysts estimate that 70 percent of all 3-D mechanical CAD/CAM systems available today trace their roots back to Hanratty’s original code.  
          In the early stages, CAD systems used to be designated into two camps: Hanrattybased and non-Hanratty-based. (See ‘Milestones’ below for additional 
        information.)  
  WALKING ABOUT</strong> 
 Five decades later, Hanratty hasn’t shown any signs of slowing down. A believer of the peripatetic philosophy – and grandfather of 13 – he can be found in the gym three mornings a week, “as regular as a clock,” boasted Hanratty. “I am a strong believer that you just can’t be a potato and still have your mind active. I think it was Aristotle who taught his students while walking because he believed their minds were so much more active that way.” 
 When not in the office (where Hanratty admits that there are weeks he spends between 80-100 hours) or in the gym, one can often find him “playing in the dirt.” 
 Taking in stride the good-natured ribbing from his wife, Sandra, for his gold prospecting hobby, husband (and wife) enjoy the satisfaction of finding beauty among the muck. 
 “My goal is to eventually find enough gold so that I can make jewelry to set the opals that I have cut over the years,” Hanratty said. “Successful prospecting comes down to just one thing: work.” 
 Armed with his shaker pan and digging like hell, Hanratty isn’t afraid of a little work. His track record proves it. And if he has his way about it, Hanratty plans to wrap up his work in the CAD/CAM field in the next 30 years – allowing him plenty of free time to go prospecting. 
 If he ever decides to retire. 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 