 
	lmartie – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
		
 	   	  		 Author Archive 
 	  
				 
				  Congratulations to Arturo Di Lecce!  

				 
                	 April 28, 2016   Arturo recently defended and passed his MS thesis in crowd development! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Congratulations to Arturo Di Lecce!    

			 

				 
				  SimSE  

				 
                	 December 12, 2015   A blast from the past. SimSE, developed by one of the very first graduate students of SDCL – Emily Navarro, continues to be popular. Check out some youtube videos of folks using it! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on SimSE    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Thomas Kwak!  

				 
                	 November 17, 2015   Thomas Kwak is a new UCI Masters student who will be joining the code search team to do his Masters thesis! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Thomas Kwak!    

			 

				 
				  SDCL at ASE 2015!  

				 
                	 November 15, 2015   Lee Martie at ASE 2015 presenting “CodeExchange: Supporting Reformulation of Internet-Scale Code Queries in Context”. This was joint work between Lee Martie, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek. 
				 

				   Posted in   conference ,  Travel  |     Comments Off  on SDCL at ASE 2015!    

			 

				 
				  We wish Martin Medina well!  

				 
                	 November 1, 2015   We are glad to have had Martin and wish him well back home! Martin and Lee were still hard at work on Martin’s last day… they started to look a little weird though. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on We wish Martin Medina well!    

			 

				 
				  CodeExchange – A new Java code search engine  

				 
                	 August 12, 2014   Program Java? Checkout CodeExchange, our new code search engine. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on CodeExchange – A new Java code search engine    

			 

				 
				  Meet the SDCL Beowulf Cluster  

				 
                	 May 18, 2014   We needed to do some serious data mining on a budget, so we built a 45 Raspberry Pi Beowulf cluster. It’s working great and is a welcomed member of the lab :). 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Meet the SDCL Beowulf Cluster    

			 

				 
				  Tablet tower to server tower  

				 
                	 April 1, 2014   What do you do when you need to do a lot of parallel data processing but cloud services are just too expensive? Turn your lab’s tablets into servers, of course! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Tablet tower to server tower    

			 

				 
				  Marian Petre visit  

				 
                	 March 30, 2014   Our long-term collaborator Marian Petre from The Open University visited us last week. Her insights are always much appreciated and we already look forward to her next visit! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Marian Petre visit    

			 

				 
				  SCALE at IBM’s T.J. Watson Research Center  

				 
                	 October 9, 2013   The SDCL just attended the SCALE conference at IBM’s T.J. Watson Research Center. There we had the great opportunity to share our current work on on crowd development, crowd debugging, and social-technical code search. We also had the privilege to hear interesting talks and have engaging discussion by and with IBMers and other SCALE members. 
				 

				   Posted in   Travel  |     Comments Off  on SCALE at IBM’s T.J. Watson Research Center    

			 

		        
		         
              
              Next Page »  
              
         
                
	 
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 