 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  March 24,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         Lopes awarded Pizzigati Prize for Software in the Public Interest

</strong>
          
                    
  The Tides Foundation honored Lopes for her work in developing OpenSimulator, making her the first woman to receive the prize.  

   
The Tides Foundation—a social justice and sustainability-focused organization—has awarded Informatics Professor  Crista Lopes</strong> the  Antonio Pizzigati Prize for Software in the Public Interest . The prize, which includes a $10,000 cash grant, is given annually to a leader in open source software development who has made strides in the nonprofit sector and in social change movements. Lopes is the first woman to receive the honor.

  
Lopes receives the award for her groundbreaking work in developing  OpenSimulator , an open-source platform that allows users to run virtual world "Second Life" environments on their own servers. OpenSimulator was crafted by 124 individual contributors who exerted an estimated 107 years of individual effort in just six years of collaboration. The platform has seen many uses, including serving as a virtual educational environment. Lopes and her fellow organizers also hold an  annual virtual conference  for the OpenSimulator community.

  
“I strongly believe in the benefits of a public software infrastructure, something that has been emerging over the past 20 years or so, but that needs a lot more investment by everyone,” Lopes says. “Modern society runs on it, and the developers who contribute to it are unsung heroes. So I am honored to be given this award by the Tides Foundation, who seems to have a similar attitude.”

  
The award honors the brief life of  Antonio Pizzigati , an early champion for open source software development. Pizzigati received his degree in computer science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he also worked at the world-famous MIT Media Lab and later the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science. From a young age, Pizzigati was active in data-driven activism and was one of the earliest World Wide Web authors.



  
 
“The Pizzigati Prize seeks to honor software developers who create, for free public distribution, open source applications and tools that nonprofit and advocacy groups can put to good use,” the Tides Foundation says. “These developers are making a two-faceted contribution to social change. First, they are having an important practical impact: their software helps nonprofits both become more effective on a daily basis, and build their capacity to better inform and mobilize their constituents.”

  
The foundation especially lauds prizewinners’ commitment to collaboration and sharing in a traditionally cutthroat and competitive path to software development progress. “We hope and expect that this prize initiative will also help link public interest software developers with each other and with the nonprofit and advocacy groups that so strongly need their assistance,” according to the Tides Foundation. Lopes will receive her award at the end of March at the  Nonprofit Technology Conference  in San Jose, Calif.















                      Lopes awarded Pizzigati Prize for Software in the Public Interest

    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Informatics professors Bowker, Ito release interdisciplinary, culture-focused books


              
                Next &gt; 
                 Hypergrid inventor wins $10,000 prize


             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 