 Evaluation of Probabilistic Queries over Imprecise Data in
Constantly-Evolving Environments (Information Systems Journal 2007)    
		
 
		     		
		
  
   
 Evaluation of Probabilistic Queries over Imprecise Data in
Constantly-Evolving Environments.    
 Information Systems Journal, 32(1), March 2007. 
 
  
  
  
   
Reynold Cheng,  Dmitri V. Kalashnikov , and Sunil Prabhakar 
  
    
Department of Computer Sciences   
Purdue University    
  
 Abstract 
   
Sensors are often employed to monitor continuously changing entities like locations of moving objects
and temperature. The sensor readings are reported to a database system, and are subsequently
used to answer queries. Due to continuous changes in these values and limited resources (e.g., network
bandwidth and battery power), the database may not be able to keep track of the actual values
of the entities. Queries that use these old values may produce incorrect answers. However, if the
degree of uncertainty between the actual data value and the database value is limited, one can place
more confidence in the answers to the queries. More generally, query answers can be augmented with
probabilistic guarantees of the validity of the answers. In this paper, we study probabilistic query
evaluation based on uncertain data. A classification of queries is made based upon the nature of the
result set. For each class, we develop algorithms for computing probabilistic answers, and provide
efficient indexing and numeric solutions. We address the important issue of measuring the quality of
the answers to these queries, and provide algorithms for efficiently pulling data from relevant sensors
or moving objects in order to improve the quality of the executing queries. Extensive experiments
are performed to examine the effectiveness of several data update policies.
   
   
  Keywords:  Sensor databases, 
			querying imprecise data, 
            uncertainty, 
            uncertainty region, 
            handling uncertainty, 
            models of uncertainty, 
            aggregate query,   
            entity-based query, 
            value-based query, 
            probabilistic queries, 
            quality of probabilistic answer, 
            update heuristics, 
            location-aware computing,  
  
    
  Downloadable files: 
Paper:  IS07_dvk_pqry.pdf   
See also a  moving-object environment solution  to a similar problem.  
   BibTeX entry:  
 @article{IS07::dvkPQ,
   author    = {Reynold Cheng and Dmitri V.\ Kalashnikov and Sunil Prabhakar},
   title     = {Evaluation of Probabilistic Queries over Imprecise Data in Constantly-Evolving Environments},
   journal   = IS,
   volume    = 32,
   number    = 1,
   pages     = {104--130},
   month     = mar,    
   year      = 2007
}


 
 Back to Kalashnikov's homepage 
          </body> 