 Introduction<body>
       Table of Contents    Toolkit Integration Technique     (Top)    (Next)     1. Introduction 
 
The Augment system [ 7 ] by Douglas Englebart demonstrates the power hypermedia functionality provides its users. All documents in this text-based system are hypermedia-enabled. Users can link any type of structure to any other type of structure, from simple character strings to paragraphs to sections to entire documents. In addition to creating documents and links, users can traverse links and search the hyperweb of documents for relevant information. These pervasive features enable users to perform sophisticated collaborative work [ 8 ].
 
 
Recent work in hypermedia focuses on two approaches to providing similar features for users in modern computing environments. The  hyperbase approach  [ 18 ] provides a hypermedia database to store all participating applications' data in a centralized server. Once an application is adapted to use the hyperbase, the application's users gain access to hypermedia functionality. The  open hypermedia systems approach  [ 20 ,  23 ] separates hypermedia functionality and application data. Applications manage their own data storage but depend on an open hypermedia system (OHS) to provide hypermedia services to their users. Often called  link servers , these systems manage the storage and retrieval of hypermedia structures and provide hypermedia operations over these structures.
These approaches have yielded a significant number of systems [ 1 ,  3 ,  11 ,  17 ,  21 ,  22 ] that have demonstrated the ability to integrate a wide range of applications with various levels of hypermedia support [ 4 ]. Even techniques for integrating third-party "black-box" applications have emerged providing a modest level of hypermedia support. However, in order to utilize the complete range of hypermedia services available from these systems, developers must expend a significant amount of effort modifying their applications to comply with the protocol of the target hypermedia system.
 
 
In order to provide hypermedia functionality either automatically or with significantly reduced effort on the part of developers, one new approach being pursued is the definition of an object-oriented hypermedia framework which can be used to augment existing object-oriented applications with hypermedia functionality [ 10 ]. This paper describes a different approach which attempts to minimize the modifications required to a target application. This new technique extends a user-interface toolkit to enable its widgets with hypermedia services. The technique leverages the power of open hypermedia systems by making the user-interface toolkit a client of an OHS. As a result, the toolkit's widgets are able to create persistent hypermedia structures and provide access to hypermedia operations.
 
 
This paper is organized as follows.  Section 2  discusses the technique's conceptual architecture in detail.  Section 3  presents a prototype system demonstrating the technique, while  Section 4  examines the technique's benefits. The paper  concludes  with a discussion of  related work  and  future research  directions.
 
       Table of Contents    Toolkit Integration Technique     (Top)    (Next)    </body> 