 Archive of Working Group on Versioning and Configuration Management of World Wide Web Content: Draft functional requirements (strawman or woodman, you decide!)<body> Draft functional requirements (strawman or woodman, you decide!) 
 David Durand  (  dgd@cs.bu.edu  )  Mon, 1 Jul 1996 11:10:59 -0400 
 
     Messages sorted by:   [ date ]  [ thread ]  [ subject ]  [ author ] 

    Next message:   Larry Masinter: "Re: Draft functional requirements (strawman or woodman, you decide!)" 
    Previous message:   Jim Whitehead: "Proposed agenda for San Mateo Meeting" 

    Next in thread:   Larry Masinter: "Re: Draft functional requirements (strawman or woodman, you decide!)" 
    Maybe reply:   Larry Masinter: "Re: Draft functional requirements (strawman or woodman, you decide!)" 

    
 


Functional Requirements and Framework for Versioning on the WWW Preamble 
Dear all,    During Fabio's pleasant visit to David's house, the two of
us have decided to have a try at another draft of the functional
requirement document, to include some new requirements and to make
explicit some that we think have been implicit in the discussion so far.
The  requirements in this document are proposed as an additional step after
David Fiander's; we do not claim that they are complete.

  We have divided the requirements in three sections. A first short
section describes the rationale for versioning on the web. This rationale
enumerates the goals as we see them for the whole project. All specific
requirements should support (and certainly should not hinder) the
realization of the goals. The Second section
contains global requirements for protocol development. These are things we
think are technically justified and that fulfil the rationale. They are
separated from the other requirements because their acceptance creates
further constraints on other technical requirements. Finally we list some
specific requirements and that reflect our own analysis of the problem.

  Also, we strongly agree with David Fiander's separation of versioning
and configuration requirements, and propose a two-layer architecture for
versioning on the web.  The first layer will address the simple problem of
 handling multiple versions of single resources.  The second layer
will address the thornier problems of configuration management for multiple
resources.  This layering separates concerns nicely, and also leads to an
efficient work plan.  We can create a basic architecture for versioning,
and maybe even have it on the standards track, while we're still arguing
about how to approach the more differentiated and ticklish problems of
configuration management.

  In practice this means that, while we should still take our own
knowledge of configuration management into consideration insofar as it has an
impact on the lower-level versioning issues, we shouldn't spend time,
efforts and flames on configuration problems until we are ready to solve
them.

  Therefore we have decided to write down our view of the functional
requirements for versioning support on the WWW, with an emphasis on
resource versioning only. We invite people to contribute any configuration
management requirements that may affect the development of the resource
versioning layer.

  At the end of specific requirements, you will find  [emphasized] 
notes comparing this note and David Fiander's one, noting and justifying
changes in wording, structure and issues.

  

 Functional Requirements and Framework for Versioning on the WWW 

 This document gives a brief rationale for versioning on the WWW,
and presents some functional requirements based on the rationale.
 

 Rationale 

 Versioning in the context of the world-wide web offers a variety of
benefits: 

  It allows more efficient management of large web sites.
  It allows concurrent and controlled access to resources by
authors and editors 
 It can enhance the quality of annotation support
(and other externally stored references) by preserving the
historical record of changes to WWW resources 
 It allows explicit semantic representation of
single resources with multiple states 
  [Other rationale items to follow?]  
  This document gives requirements for extending WWW standards and
protocols to obtain these benefits. 

 Global requirements 


 This section covers the overarching contraints that must
inform and direct all the detailed requirements for specific features.
These encompass compatibility across different implementations, as well as
with current practice.
Therefore, we believe the following to be the general requirements for
versioning extensions: 

   Stableness of versions.  Any successful attempt to retrieve a
named version of a resource will always retrieve exactly the same content.
To put it in another way, the content of a named version of a resource is
immutable (it is reliably either frozen or not available).

  [No one has made this explicit, yet this is the
 distinctive feature essential to versioning systems]</strong> 

  User Agent Interoperability. All
versioning-aware user agents should be able to work with any
versioning-aware HTTP server. It is acceptable for some user
agent/server combinations to provide special features that are not
universally available.

  [This has also been implicit, yet somehow
forgotten. Better to
specify it]</strong> 

  Legacy User Agent Support.  Servers should make versioned
resources accessible to versioning-unaware user-agents
in a format acceptable to them.
  [This is our justification for endorsing
Fiander's proposal that
URLs must be able to specify version information.]</strong> 

  Legacy Resource Support.  The protocol must enable a versioning
aware server to work with existing resources and URLs. Special versioning
information should not become a mandatory part of the protocol except where
it is absolutely required. Version information cannot therefore be required
in a URL for simple GET operations (and possibly also for POST). 

  Separation of access to resources and access control  The protocol
must provide ways to reserve or release versioned resources that are separated
from the ways to get to these resources. Provided that the required set of
consistency constraints are met before, during and after the modification of a
versioned resource, no "right way" to access to a resource is enforced by the
protocol. For instance, a user may request a lock *after* a GET, may POST a
resource without releasing the lock, and may request a lock within the means of
the protocol (HTTP connection) while getting the resource outside of it (FTP
access, direct file access, or simply because the right copy hung around her
disk after a previous access). This also provides a better policy for handling
versioning through proxies.  

  Functional requirements 

 The protocol should provide: 
  Access to specific named versions via a URL
  [Again, a part of one of David F.'s
requirements]</strong> 

 Specific named version URLs that are constructed from an opaque URL and an
opaque version string.

  [Because the notation will be required to
operate in the version control
environment preferred by the website maintainer, it must be able to properly
contain arbitrary strings, which may be used by the VCS as version
identifiers.  While version information may be intelligible to the human
operator, and perhaps to special-purpose clients, in the general case, we
must assume that the client treats the version as a black box.
 This is David Fiander's justification copied in with a few minor
changes (we can't guarantee that version strings will be meaningful to a
human).]</strong> 


 Direct access to a server-defined "default", "current" or "tip" version
of a resource.
  [This provides one of the simplest ways to
guarantee legacy
user-agent compatibility, and legacy file compatibility. If no special
version URLs are used, the server can provide an intelligent default. This
does not rule out the possibility of a server returning an error in case
it believes that no such default exists.]</strong> 

 A way to access common related URLs from a versioned URL, whether by
server query, URL computation, or some other way:
  root version(s) of this document 
 predecessor version(s) of this document 
 successor version(s) of this document 
 default version of this document 
 complete version topology for this document 
  [This is a new one: *some* versions of a resource
are special. It
must be possible in some way for a versioning-aware client to access
common related versions to the one it currently is displaying. Possible
solutions include, but are not limited to: the server automatic adding
header fields to a versioned URL specifying the URL of the common
related versions, the server providing a query method ("who is the
previous version to this URL?"), or a standardized way to compute
related URL given a versioned URL. ]</strong> 


 Some way (e.g.  by URL inspection or server query) to determine that a
URL points to a named version of a resource, and to tell the version
identification part from the resource identification part.
 Note that the requirement that a user agent can determine a resource
name (URL) and a version identifier supports only some comparison
operations: It enables the determination that two version-containing URLs
designate versions of the same resource. However, given the phenomenon of
URL aliasing, it is insufficient to determine that they are  not 
versions of the same resource.
  [This is a direct contradiction of one of David
F.'s requirements. We
feel that access to the "default" version of a resource is an extremely
important operation, that a browser should be able to perform at any time
that a versioned URL is seen. This is sort of a minimal "browsing through
time" requirement. Even if this kind of default access is not allowed for
encapsulation reasons,
this requirement allows a browser to tell that a versioned resource has been
accessed and then to invoke special versioning or configuration management
operations on the resource. We also don't see that determining this information
is any more pernicious that being able to determine that a URL contains a
query string -- indeed it's potentially more useful, as it tells you
about the identity of the referenced item, not one of its
properties.]</strong> 

 a way to request exclusive access to a version of a resource (LOCK). 

 a way to release exclusive acccess to a resource (UNLOCK), 

 A way for a user-agent to request a version identifier for a checked
out version, with the understanding that it will not be used by any other
user-agent in the meantime. The server may refuse the service. 

 a way to submit a resource as a version of an existing version of a
resource (POST or PUT), and have the server attach it to the correct part of
the version tree. The client may propose a version identifier upon
submitting the
resource. The server may refuse to use it.  

  [ The last four functional requirements take
care of the last
global requirements: version access is now logically separated from
access control (LOCK/UNLOCK) and updating. In terms of traditional CM, a
CHECKOUT is a LOCK followed by a GET and a CHECKIN is a POST followed by
an UNLOCK.
  In this way, we get the advantage of separating access control (locking
and unlocking of resources) from modification of resources. We also have
many more options for the assigment of version numbers depending on
server policy. The version identifier of a new resource can be
negotiated between the user-agent and the server at 3 points in time:
when a lock is taken, when the lock is released, or when the resource is
POSTed. We also offer options (such as locking a resource without
modifying it) that will be useful in creating the configuration
management layer.
 The hardest thing will be assuring that clients can work with servers
varying in locking policy from those that spawn versions rather than
implement locks, to those that allow optional locking, to those that
 require  locking (and possibly explicit control of version
branching at the same time). Even without getting into config
management, server policy on these issues varies a lot: we want a
protocol that will allow user-agents to work with all servers,
regardless of strategy.]</strong>




  
     Next message:   Larry Masinter: "Re: Draft functional requirements (strawman or woodman, you decide!)" 
    Previous message:   Jim Whitehead: "Proposed agenda for San Mateo Meeting" 

    Next in thread:   Larry Masinter: "Re: Draft functional requirements (strawman or woodman, you decide!)" 
    Maybe reply:   Larry Masinter: "Re: Draft functional requirements (strawman or woodman, you decide!)" 

   </body> 