 Calendar of events is limited. – Ramesh Jain 
	
	 
				 
		 
								 
				   							
		 Search 
		
					  
								 
									Ramesh Jain								 
							 
														 Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher 
																
				 
	 	
		
	    About Ramesh 
   News  
	  Events  
  
  Towards Weaving the Visual Web  
  Research 
   Books  
	  Patents  
	  Presentations  
	  Projects  
	  Research Papers 
	   Computer Vision  
		  Experiential Computing  
		  Multimedia Information Management  
	  
  
  Teaching 
   Current Courses  
	  Past Courses  
  
  Entrepreneurship 
   Current Companies  
	  Past Companies  
  
  Partners 
   Current Students  
	  Past Students  
	  Collaborators  
  
  Professional/Social 
   Services  
	  Recognitions  
	  Interviews  
  
  Personal 
   Affiliations  
	  Education  
	  Favorite Books  
	  Favorite Quotes  
  
  Digital India: A potentially transformative opportunity  
  Navigation    
					 

 
	

 
    	 
    				Calendar of events is limited.    			 
  			 
    			 I was exploring sights related to ‘events’, possibly motivated by Esther Dyson’s upcoming When2.0.  There is something puzzling about this. 
 Most sites are being developed — according to the impression that I got — for making events important.  The goal is to help people find things related to events.  It is clear, however, that events are interpreted in a narrow sense as ‘scheduled events’ that people will want to put on their calendar for planning purposes.  No body will disagree that these scheduled events are extremely important.  These events help us in planning our time and help us get information that will help us participate in the events of interest.  It is nice to see that these sites are also going in the direction of utilizing  social and community tools to help people find what is really interesting.  Interestingness depends on what our friends and other people in the community find interesting.  Amazon.com has capitalized on this concept and populaized it. 
 There are all these other events that are not scheduled  they just happen and then result in creation of other events.  Many new events are created that are also unscheduled and may scheduled events are also created as a result of this.  So Katrina was definitely an unscheduled event but it did result in millions of scheduled and unscheduled events.   
 If one wants to deal with events,  it is easier to deal with only scheduled events because they are well structured and can be obtained easier by going to different sites and now RSS and other related techniques make it easier.  Also, one could get community involved and get them to enter events.  Thus, one could start using flickr model for events.  And this definitely is a good step in making events what they deserve to be.  But this is just the first step where we are bringing relatively structured events and their information to people. 
 The next step is to consider all events   — scheduled and unscheduled and bring them under the same umbrella.  The interest in News, whether in Newspapers, radios, or TV, is due to this fact that all scheduled and unscheduled events are at one place. 
  			 
  			 	        			
    			 
    				 By  Ramesh   |
    				  November 18, 2005   |
    				             		  Experiential Computing ,  Prospecting Information   |
             	 
    				             		  No Comments   |
             	 		          				
    			 
    		 

  						    ←  Enterprise search is not for Google  
				  A site combining Taxonomy and Folksonomy  →   
			  

	
	
		 
		 Leave a Reply   Cancel reply   			
				  Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  *    Comment     Name  *    
  Email  *    
  Website   
  			
			 
	
 
		  


 
	


  


	    

	   
	   	
	   
	    
				 
			 
				    Copyright © 2017   Ramesh Jain   |  Theme by:   Theme Horse   |  Powered by:   WordPress    
			   Back to Top  		 

	 

</body> 