 hector parra spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Hector Parra spotlight 

 
 

  Fun and Games</strong>
 
 
  Hector Parra poses in front of  
  Legend of Fiasco, which  he helped  
  create 
  in the   ICS computer  game development class.
 
 
 Hector Parra didn't want to graduate without taking the computer game development class, and while it gave him an opportunity to spend time playing in a virtual world, it also taught him intangible skills he can apply in the real world.  
 “This class taught me how to work with other people in a team and it turned out to be an awesome team that was perfect for this sort of game,” Parra, a senior computer science major said. “Not only did everyone put in a chunk of the core of the game, but they also put their own little magic into it.” 
 The team tossed around various ideas, did they want to make an RPG or fantasy based game, before deciding on a classic beat’em up game in the mold of Double Dragon and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.  
 In the game, The Legend of Fiasco, the player uses karate skills and various weapons to defeat black pajama clad ninjas while navigating a colorful 2D world.  
 It was video games that initially ignited Parra’s passion for computers. 
  When he was 7 years old, his dad installed Leisure Suite Larry on the family’s 386 computer. 
 

 Hear Hector's story in his  
own words, and be sure to  
check out our  YouTube page   
to watch more student profiles.
 
 
 Parra didn’t know what the game was about, but he knew he couldn’t get in to play it because it would ask questions about the band Chicago and President Reagan.  
 The questions were intended to prevent minors from being able to access the game, due to its adult story line in which the main character spends the game trying to seduce women.  
 But Parra saw patterns in the questions the game was asking based on how you answered the previous question. He started memorizing the correct answers depending on the patterns and eventually got into the game.  
 “I had no interest in the game, I didn’t know how to play it, I actually had more interest in breaking into it and seeing how it worked and seeing the patterns,” Parra said.  “That’s what initially peaked my interest in computing.” 
  NOT GETTING LOST</strong> 
 When deciding where to transfer to from Saddleback College, Parra was looking for someplace he could feel connected to and a place where he wouldn’t get lost in the crowd.  
 “What really caught my attention was the fact that there is a Bren School, the fact that a university would give the respect to a subject that is so widespread and so integrated into other fields it’s own school, I really feel connected here,” Parra said. “I know at a lot of the really big schools, it is really easy to get lost and especially in the other schools that do not have computer science separate, the program is part of the engineering school and gets lost in the school itself.” 
 
 Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.
 
 “It is a very intimate place, you can talk to people, you can express your ideas freely,” Parra said. “If you want to do research you can just ask, its so simple.” 
 Parra also likes how the Bren School fosters an environment that stimulates innovative collaborations and allows anyone, even undergraduates, to get involved in faculty research projects. 
 Working as a member of Informatics professor Gillian Hayes' research team, Parra is helping to develop a digital repository and visual schedule system for use in schools and homes by individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). 
 This system will enable caregivers and individuals with ASD to more quickly and easily interact with the schedules, marking when activities are completed and rearranging schedule items with streamlined, simple interactions.  
 The system will also enable new modes of interaction, including greater communication and collaboration among caregivers.  
  GIVING BACK</strong> 
 The Bren School has provided Parra a lot of opportunities, so when there was an opportunity to give back he jumped at the chance.  
 Parra became an inaugural member of the  Bren School Student Ambassador  program launched last year.  
 The group of undergraduate students conducts community outreach visits to students in high schools, middle schools and community colleges and shares their reasons  why the Bren School has met or exceeded their expectations for a dynamic undergraduate experience. 
  “If you are driven, if you know what you want to do, if you know what you like and you just want an opportunity to do it this is the right place to come to,” Parra said.  
  - Eric Kowalik  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 