 Workshop on Internet Scale Event Notification (WISEN)<body>

 
      
 
 
July 13-14, 1998  
   
 
University of California, Irvine 
Irvine, California, USA
 

  

 
   
     HOME 
    PROGRAM  
    REGISTRATION   
    
		 HOTELS, MAPS, &amp; DIRECTIONS  
    ORGANIZING COMMITTEE   
    FOR MORE INFORMATION  
    

  
  
  
There was no  Proceedings  for WISEN. Presenters' viewgraphs and
breakout session summary viewgraphs are available on the 
 
Program  page.
 
A listserver for Notifications discussion was set up after the workshop
by the Internet Mail Consortium. To subscribe to the mailing list, send a 
message to ietf-isen-request@imc.org with the single word subscribe in the 
body of the message. To unsubscribe from the list, use that same address 
with the single word unsubscribe in the body of the message.
   
You can also access the archive through web page:    
 
http://www.imc.org/ietf-isen 
  

    

 
WISEN aims to gather participants from industry and academia who are
working on or researching event notification systems or protocols for
use on the Internet. Communities interested in notification such as
 web authoring ,  instant messaging ,  buddy lists ,
 workflow , and  internet printing  should find this
workshop highly relevant.

  
The goals of the workshop include developing a better understanding
among the different communities of interest, improved definition of
requirements for an event notification service, a better appreciation
of the application domains that will benefit from an event
notification service, and suggestions for fruitful research
directions.

  
The first day will feature a single track of presentations from 
invited speakers. The second day will feature presentations from invited
speakers in the morning, and parallel breakout sessions in the afternoon.
The workshop will end with participants gathering for a summary of the
breakout sessions.

  
Breakout sessions are currently planned on the topics of:
    Requirements for internet scale event notifications.
   What set of technologies can be leveraged to create an internet-scale
  notification service?
   What are the scaling factors for internet event notifications?
   What applications most benefit from an internet notification service?
   Security considerations for notifications.
    
  

 
Gregory Alan Bolcer , University of California, Irvine,
 
gbolcer@ics.uci.edu 
 

 
Alfonso Fuggetta , Politecnico di Milano, Italy,
 
fuggetta@elet.polimi.it 
  
Michael Gorlick, The Aerospace Corp.,
 
gorlick@aero.org 
  

 
Dennis Heimbigner , University of Colorado, Boulder,
 
dennis@cs.colorado.edu  
 

 
Rohit Khare , University of California, Irvine,
 
rohit@ics.uci.edu 
  

 
David S. Rosenblum , University of California, Irvine,
 
dsr@ics.uci.edu 
  

 
Richard N. Taylor , University of California, Irvine,
 
taylor@ics.uci.edu 
  

 
E. James Whitehead , University of California, Irvine,
 
ejw@ics.uci.edu 
  

 
Alexander L. Wolf , University of Colorado, Boulder,
 
alw@cs.colorado.edu 
    

   
  
Debra A. Brodbeck 
Information and Computer Science 
University of California, Irvine 
Irvine, CA 92697-3425 
+1 (949) 824-2260  
brodbeck@ics.uci.edu 
 



  
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science   
University of California, Irvine  
Irvine, CA 92697-3425
 

 </body> 