 Career Fair spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Students take advantage of campus career fairs 

 
 

 
 Bren School students were given two opportunities to meet with potential employers on Oct. 13, when the UCI Career Center hosted an Engineering, Science, and Technology Career Fair, while the ICS Student Council sponsored a quarterly Reverse Career Fair.  Both were held at the Student Center.  
 Engineering, Science and Technology Career Fair 
 
 
At the UCI Engineering, Science and Technology Career fair, hundreds of undergraduate and graduate students talked to representatives from 89 companies with hopes of gaining a job or internship. Companies included Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Intel, Verizon Wireless and Blizzard Entertainment. The Career Center hosts various career fairs throughout the academic year. For more information, visit  http://www.career.uci.edu .
 
 
 
Hessam Kooti, a Computer Science graduate student, talks to a potential employer. Kooti will finish his graduate program in six months and is hoping to secure a full-time job before graduating. He says the career fair is a good way to get in contact with companies: “Online you don’t get to talk to people. Here, you’re talking to people who have similar careers and interests.”
 
 
 
Badhri Sridharan, a Computer Science graduate student, speaks with a representative from Blizzard Entertainment after days of preparing for the fair by researching his companies of interest. He noted that the fair featured a large number of organizations, including many of the big time players in his field. 
 
 
 
A Verizon Wireless recruiter said she was hired through a career fair at her alma mater. “The [students] who stand out to me are the ones who’ve done their research,” she noted. She encourages students to learn about the companies before attending the fair. “Do your homework and always send a follow-up email. It helps the recruiters remember you as a person.”
 
 ICSSC Reverse Career Fair 
 
 
The Reverse Career Fair gave students a unique opportunity to display individual or team projects to prospective employers in the hopes of gaining a job or internship. First-year student council member Delian Petrov (far right) states: “In a regular career fair… students only have 30 to 40 seconds to make an impression. This way, companies can see the students’ hard work.”
 
 
 
Senior Informatics major Chris Lang is the project manager of “UCI Field Study Web Portal.” The yearlong project’s aim is to transform UC Irvine’s current information-only Field Study website into community partner listings for which students can apply. Lang hopes to secure a job as an associate producer by the time he graduates.
 
 
 
Ryan Skinner, a junior Computer Science major, displays his self-made project, which facilitates the building of worlds in video games. Skinner enjoys video games and programming, and hopes to find an internship with a company like Blizzard Entertainment. 
 
 
  Kenny Compass and Steven Nguyen, both senior Informatics majors, demonstrate their project titled “Presidio Mobile.”  The project, affiliated with the Presidio Trust (which preserves Presidio National Park), is a mobile database for plant life. Nguyen said the goal of the project was “to get experience.” 
 
 
 
 
Yoon Lee, a Computer Science major graduating this quarter, presents his solo project, “ZOT Mobile.” The app is a flagship application for students, faculty and visitors, wherein features and functionality of the app simplify student life at UCI and deliver useful information. Some features of the app include a campus map, directory, shuttle schedule and library look-up. Lee says he has gained valuable training through a previous internship with MobilityWare. Ideally, he would like to work as a compiler or with mobile computer applications.
 
  
 — Story by Aminah Galal and Courtney Hamilton  
 — Photos by Aminah Galal and Peter Huynh
 


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 