  High-quality recordings of Australian sign language signs  <body>


  High-quality recordings of Australian sign language signs 


 Data Type 
multivariate time series. 


 Abstract 
 
This data consists of sample of Auslan (Australian Sign Language) signs.
27 examples of each of 95 Auslan signs were captured from a native signer
using high-quality position trackers and instrumented gloves.

 


  Sources 
  Original Owner and Donor 
 
Mohammed Waleed Kadous
School of Computer Science of Engineering
University of New South Wales
Sydney NSW 2052 Australia
Tel: 61 2 9385 6922
 waleed@cse.unsw.edu.au 
 
 Date Donated:   Feb 26, 2002



  Data Characteristics 

 Source 
 
Data was captured using a setup that consisted of:
    Two Fifth Dimension Technologies (5DT) gloves, one right and one left
   Two Ascension Flock-of-Birds magnetic position trackers, one attached to 
each hand
   A four-port serial card to cope with four data sources
   A PC (128MB RAM, Intel Pentium II 266MHz) was used
   
In terms of the quality of the data, the Flock system was far superior to
the Nintendo system also 
 available
 
 from the same donor. Firstly, this was
a two-hand system. Secondly, each position tracker provided 6 degrees of
freedom - i.e. roll, pitch and yaw as well as x, y and z. The gloves also
provided a full five fingers of data. But the big improvements were in
resolution - both accuracy and temporal. Position and orientation were
defined to 14-bit accuracy, giving position information with a typical
positional error less than one centimetre and angle error less than one
half of a degree. Finger bend was measured with 8 bits per finger, of
which probably 6 bits were usable once the glove was calibrated. The
refresh rate of the complete system was close to 100 frames per second;
and all signals had significantly less noise than the Nintendo data.
 
 
Samples from a single signer (a native Auslan signer) were collected over
a period of nine weeks. In total, 27 samples per sign, and a total of 2565
signs were collected. The average length of each sign was approximately 57
frames.
 


 
See past usage for a more detailed discussion on the data collection methodology.
 

 Signers 
The data was collected from a volunteer native Auslan signer


 Preprocessing 
 
The data presented is the raw data with no filtering. 
 

 Variable Descriptions 
 
The following data were recorded for each hand:

* x position expressed relative to a zero point set slightly below the
  chin. Expressed in meters.

* y position expressed relative to a zero point set slightly below the
  chin. Expressed in meters.

* z position expressed relative to a zero point set slightly below the
  chin. Expressed in meters.

* roll expressed as a value between -0.5 and 0.5 with 0 being palm down.
Positive means the palm is rolled clockwise from the perspective of the
signer. To get degrees, multiply by 180.

* pitch expressed as a value between -0.5 and 0.5 with 0 being palm flat
(horizontal). Positive means the palm is pointing up. To get degrees,
multiply by 180.

* yaw expressed a value between -1.0 and 1.0 with 0 being palm straight
ahead from the perspective of the signer. Positive means clockwise from
the perspective above the signer. To get degrees, multiply by 180.

* Thumb bend measure between 0 and 1. 0 means totally flat, 1 means
totally bent. However, the finger bend measurements are not very exact.

* Forefinger bend measure between 0 and 1. 0 means totally flat, 1 means
totally bent. However, the finger bend measurements are not very exact.

* Middle finger bend measure between 0 and 1. 0 means totally flat, 1
means totally bent. However, the finger bend measurements are not very
exact.

* Ring finger bend measure between 0 and 1. 0 means totally flat, 1 means
totally bent. However, the finger bend measurements are not very exact.

* Little finger bend measure between 0 and 1. 0 means totally flat, 1
means totally bent. However, the finger bend measurements are not very
exact.

 



 Data Format 
 
The file consists of 9 subdirectories tctodd1-9. Each directory
consists of 3 samples of each sign, captured on a different
day. In total there are 95 different signs, with 27 samples per
sign. Signs were provided by a native signer volunteer.
 
 
Each file consists of a sequence of lines. Each line consists of
22 whitespace-separated numbers representing the 22 channels of
information. The list of channels can be found in the domain 
description file. It also lists the classes. More information
can be found 
  here
 .
 

 Past Usage 
 
  
Kadous, M. W., "Temporal Classification: Extending the Classification
Paradigm to Multivariate Time Series", PhD Thesis (draft), School of
Computer Science and Engineering, University of New South Wales, 2002.
 

 
available from:

http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~waleed/phd/
 



  Acknowledgements, Copyright Information, and Availability 

 Usage restrictions 
 
The data may be used provided that: 
    The source of the data ( http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~waleed/phd/ ) is acknowledged.  
    If you publish any work using the dataset, please inform the donor. 
    Use for commercial purposes requires donor permission.  
  Citation requests 
 
Please cite the PhD thesis above as the data source:
  
Kadous, M. W., "Temporal Classification: Extending the Classification
Paradigm to Multivariate Time Series", PhD Thesis (draft), School of
Computer Science and Engineering, University of New South Wales, 2002.
 

 Acknowledgements 
 
Particular thanks go to Todd Wright, the volunteer signer who provided the
signs.
 


 References and Further Information 
 
The thesis includes great details on the dataset. There is also a web page
that includes more detail on the dataset and some tools for playing,
recording and analysing the signs at:
 
 
http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~waleed/phd/
 




 
   
 The UCI KDD Archive   Information and Computer Science   University of California, Irvine  
Irvine, CA 92697-3425    
Last modified: Mar  5, 2002 </body> 