 Java Download and Installation Instructions<body>

 
 Java Download and Installation Instructions 
 
  
  

You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can
  refer to them while downloading and installing Java.
Or, just keep this document in your browser.
You should read each step completely before performing the action that it
  describes.
This document shows downloading and installing Java 8 on Windows 7 in
  Summer 2015.
  
   Java  

The following instructions were composed for installing Sun Java 1.8.0_60
  (aka Java SE Development Kit (JDK) 8, Update 60).
 The version you download may be newer. 
  
The Java download requires about 1 MB of disk space; keep it on your machine,
  in case you need to reinstall Java.
When installed, Java requires about an additional 290 MB of disk space.
  

  Downloading 
  
  Click
     
      Java Downloads .
     
    The following page will appear in your browser.
      
       
   Click the  Free Java Download  red button.
     
    The following page will appear in your browser.
      
       
    The page should indicate your Operating System: here in red, beneath
      the banner, it says  Download Java for Windows .

  
   Click the  Agree and Start Free Download  red button. 
    If you are asked  Do you want to run or save chromeinstall-8u60.exe
      (570 KB) from sdlc-esd.oracle.com  click  Save 
     
    This file should start downloading into your standard download folder.
    This file is under 1 Mb so it should download quickly.
      
    The file should appear as 
       
    Terminate the window browsing the Java download page.

  
   Move this file to a more permanent location, so that you can install Java
      (and reinstall it later, if necessary).

 
   
    Start the  Installing  instructions directly below.
   
   Installing 
  Double click the  chromeinstall-8u60.exe 
      file that you just downloaded and moved.
     
    In a few seconds a pop-up window titled  User Account Control  will
      appear, posing the question  Do you want the following program to
      install software on this computer? 
      
       
   Click the  Yes  button.
     
    A  Java Setup - Welcome  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
   Click the  Next &gt;  button.
     
      
      If an  Java Setup - Uninstall out-of-date versions  pop-up window
        appears, click the  Remind me Later  button.
      
    A  Java Setup - Progress  pop-up window will appear, with the 
      following message at the top of the window:
         Status: Installing Java 
      
       
    A green progress bar will appear, showing the progress as it installs
     Java, and will finally disappear (on my machine this took about
     30 seconds).
    Eventually, a  Java Setup - Complete  pop-up window will appear.
      
       

  
   Click  Close .
     
    A browser will appear, with a red  Verify Java version  button.
      
       
   Because of recent incompatabilities between Java and browsers, this test
      will typically not run correctly, so just terminate this browser.
     
    If you know how to bring up system prompt/cmd window, you can test the Java
      installation by typing  java -version  in it.
    It should show.
      
       
    After seeing this message (or an error message), type  exit  in the
       cmd.exe  window and press the  Enter  key.

   
The installed files are typically stored (in Windows) in the folder
   C:\Program Files (x86)\Java .
Inside this folder should be the folder:  jre1.8.0_60 , which itself should
  contain a  bin  and  lib  folder, and some miscellaneous  .txt 
  and a  Welcome.html  file.
 
You may now follow the instructions to download and install Python or C++
  and/or the Eclipse IDE (for Python, Java, or C++).
Note: you need to download/install Java even if you are using Eclipse only
  for Python)
  
  </body> 