 
	Consuelo Lopez – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
		
 	   	  		 Author Archive 
 	  
				 
				  Lee was awarded the IBM fellowship  

				 
                	 March 11, 2016   Lee Martie (5th year Ph.D. student) was awarded the IBM fellowship. The IBM Ph.D. Fellowship Awards Program is an intensely competitive worldwide program, which honors exceptional Ph.D. students who have an interest in solving problems that are important to IBM and fundamental to innovation in many academic disciplines and areas of study (more information can […] 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Lee was awarded the IBM fellowship    

			 

				 
				  Congratulations Dr. Gerald!  

				 
                	 March 6, 2016   Gerald Bortis defended and passed his PhD Thesis dissertation titled “PorchLight: A Tag-based Approach to Bug Triaging”. The defense took place last Friday and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Crista Lopes and James Jones. Congratulations Dr. Gerald! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Congratulations Dr. Gerald!    

			 

				 
				  Congratulations, Sara!  

				 
                	 March 2, 2016   Sara Triplett defended and passed her MS Thesis today. The tile of her talk was “Design Workspaces: Preserving and Recovering Meaning in Groups of Sketches” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Marian Petre and James Jones. Congratulations Sara! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Congratulations, Sara!    

			 

				 
				  Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams (again!)  

				 
                	 February 25, 2016   We redecorated the conference room! We have just categorized around 250 sketches the CrowdDesign team collected in their second and latest experiment. It took 2h for a crowd of five people to do the job! We all enjoyed pizza after the hard work. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams (again!)    

			 

				 
				  New Scholarship  

				 
                	 January 20, 2016   Congratulations to Consuelo López, who was recently granted the 2016 Miguel Velez scholarship. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on New Scholarship    

			 

				 
				  Congratulations, Lee Martie!  

				 
                	 January 20, 2016   Lee Martie defended and passed his PhD Topic Proposal on Tuesday. The tile of his talk was “Supporting Iterative Internet-Scale Code Search” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Cristina Lopes and James Jones. Congratulations Lee! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Congratulations, Lee Martie!    

			 

				 
				  Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams  

				 
                	 December 9, 2015   We have just categorized around 500 sketches the CrowdDesign team collected in their latest experiment. It took 3h for a crowd of six people to do the job! We all enjoyed pizza after the hard work. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams    

			 

		        
		         
              
              
              
         
                
	 
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 