 Large Introductory Courses in Research CS Departments<body>
  
 
   Introductory courses offered by computer science
departments in research universities have several characteristics that distinguish
them from courses with similar content at other institutions: 
 
* Often the class sizes are large, ranging even to hundreds of students
per class (see   Endnotes  ).
 
* The course content changes frequently, but often not in a direction that
parallels the research interests of faculty.
 
* Often the main group of faculty in the department are not significantly
rewarded for time they devote to introductory education, which can decrease
their involvement in those courses.  
 
 This panel will explore strategies, policies,
and procedures used by different research departments to address these issues.
Topics covered will include the use of non-research faculty to teach and
manage introductory courses and curricula; levels of support for hardware,
software, section leaders, lab assistants, graders, clerical and technical
staff; teaching loads; and procedures for making curricular decisions.  
 
 The panelists all have significant responsibility
for introductory courses in their departments. Each of their departments
has taken specific steps to address the conflict between research demands
and introductory teaching in computer science.    
  
  Jacobo Carrasquel
    At Carnegie Mellon we have a group
of non-tenure faculty that is in charge of teaching all the introductory
CS courses. This group has a director, an associate director, and five full-time
lecturers. Currently we teach five different 100-level (first-year) courses
for several departments and schools. Our largest "clients" are
the School of CS, the College of Engineering, and the College of Science.
 
The courses are taught every semester (15 weeks) and we have approximately
400 students every semester. In addition to the 100-level courses, we also
teach a 200-level course in data structures for non-CS majors.
 
Our courses do not include a lecture for the entire class. Each course is
structured around "recitations," which are groups of 25 students.
Each lecturer is in charge of three recitations. Recitations meet three
times a week for 50 minutes each (or twice a week for 70 minutes). On the
average, each lecturer must spend 10 contact hours and three office hours.
 
All the lecturers agree on a common set of topics to be taught during the
semester, on the language and platform to be used, and on the final exams.
Each lecturer decides on the outline, lab assignments, other exams, and
textbooks for his or her recitations. 
 
We don't have traditional TAs. We have help with some of the grading
and office hours from undergraduates that we call "Class Assistants".
Each recitation has one CA assigned to it; the CA will attend class and
spend time in the labs working with students.    
 
  Michael J. Clancy
    The U.C. Berkeley CS faculty includes
two lower-division specialists, myself and Brian Harvey. We are both classified
as "lecturers" rather than "professors;" the Lecturer
job description does not include research responsibilities, and thus involves
a higher annual teaching load (somewhat less than double that of a professor).
We both have the equivalent of tenure. Brian's duties mainly involve
teaching--he runs three sections per year of 200 or more students--while
mine include substantial administrative responsibilities. Both of us have
also taught upper-division courses in the past.
 
Certain aspects of "second-class citizenhood" are inherent in
the Lecturer position; for instance, we are not allowed to vote on tenure
cases, and nontenured lecturers are due for a smaller cost-of-living adjustment
this year than assistant professors. However, our department administrations
have gone out of their way to reduce the impact of these institutional hassles
on us. I sit on all the committees relevant to lower-division instruction
(undergraduate study, computer needs and resources, scheduling), and Brian
and I both have substantial input in decisions about curricular evolution
and resource allocation.
 
Regarding other aspects of Berkeley's support for computer science instruction,
here are some data. Our student-teacher ratio in all courses is around 50
students to 20 hours of TA. Lower-division courses get 10 minutes per student
per week of graders; upper-division courses, slightly less. Our student/computer
ratio is between 10 and 15 to 1. Three rooms of UNIX workstations are dedicated
to the lower-division CS major course sequence, and more than half the available
hours of a room of Macintoshes are allocated to our service course for non-majors.
A significant portion of the budget for instructional support staff is dedicated
to the lower-division courses.    
 
  Eric Roberts
    As at most institutions, the enrollment
patterns in computer science courses at Stanford place considerable pressure
on teaching resources. Although the computer science department represents
only 2% of the university faculty as a whole, the department is responsible
for about 6% of the units taught. Enrollment is also heavily skewed toward
introductory and service courses. The typical department in the School of
Engineering teaches a majority of its units to its own majors; in computer
science, almost 80% of the units are taken by students majoring in other
departments throughout the university.
 
Meeting this high level of demand using regular faculty would place a disproportionate
burden on the department that would make it difficult to maintain our position
as the top-ranked research department in the United States. As a result,
Stanford has relied for almost twenty years on a separate teaching faculty
to supply much of the instruction. This group, which is called the Educational
Affairs Division, currently consists of one faculty member and six lecturers.
The faculty member serves as Associate Chair of the department and is appointed
with the rank of Professor (Teaching), which is a special faculty line at
Stanford with full faculty status but off the tenure clock. Appointments
consist of renewable five-year contracts. Lecturers are typically appointed
for terms of between two and three years and are considered for promotion
to Senior Lecturer after seven years.
 
Lecturers are responsible for two types of courses:
 
1. Introductory courses, which are interpreted as extending beyond the CS1/CS2
level to include the standard sophomore course.
 
2. Service courses, which consist of practically oriented courses targeted
primarily to our master's program and students from local companies who
are enrolled via the Stanford Industrial Television Network (SITN).
 
The distance education provided by the SITN program is an important aspect
of our teaching work, not only because it provides a valuable educational
service to the community, but also because it changes the economics of the
teaching program. Because of the SITN revenue from service courses, the
lecturers bring in more money to the department than they cost--a fact that
makes it much easier to justify the program to senior university officials.
 
Lecturers are hired entirely on the basis of quality of teaching; no research
is expected. As a result, most lecturers receive very high teaching evaluations,
even in large, high-workload courses where such ratings are more difficult
to achieve. The effective teaching load beginning in 1996-97 is four courses
over three quarters. Teaching support in the form of TAs and undergraduate
section leaders is available to courses taught by lecturers at the same
level as those taught by faculty. Each lecturer's preferences are taken
strongly into account when course assignments are made.    
 
  Joseph Zachary
    The Department of Computer Science
at the University of Utah has 19 regular professors and two non-tenure-track
"clinical" professors. There are approximately 300 undergraduate
and 90 graduate students studying in the department at any given time.
 
The two clinical faculty members run every aspect of the undergraduate program:
they handle admissions, teach almost all of the freshman-level courses,
advise students, schedule courses, instigate most curriculum changes, and
provide input on hardware and software purchases. Clinical faculty teach
five or six courses per year, whereas regular faculty teach three. (Utah
is on the quarter system, which means that the teaching load for regular
faculty is one course per quarter.) Release from some of the teaching load
for a clinical faculty member can be arranged to allow time to work on such
projects as textbook writing and educational software development.
 
For the most part, clinical faculty teach the courses that are left over
after the regular faculty have chosen. Lately those courses have been the
CS1/CS2 equivalents, sophomore/junior-level programming languages and hardware
design courses, and senior/graduate-level compiler and programming languages
courses.
 
Faculty (whether regular or clinical) are typically supported with one graduate
or undergraduate teaching assistant for every 30-40 students enrolled in
a class. The teaching assistants do most of the grading and staff the computer
laboratories.  
 
   Reference    
 </body> 