 ICS 4 Assignments<body>
 ICS 4 • David G. Kay • UC Irvine • Winter 2013 
 Assignments 
 General assignment guidelines   
 The guidelines given below apply to all assignments unless an assignment explicitly says otherwise. Read them now and read them again once or twice during the quarter. 
 Assignments 
  First Homework  (due on  Checkmate  at 7:00 p.m. on Wednedsday, January 16)    

  Second Homework  (due on  Checkmate  at 7:00 p.m. on Thursday, January 24)     


 
     Third Homework  (due on  Checkmate  at 7:00 p.m. on Monday, February 4)  
    Fourth Homework (Mini-Project Part I)  (due on  Checkmate  at 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday, February 20)  
  Fifth Homework (Mini-Project Part II)  (due on  Checkmate  at 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday, March 5)
    
    Sixth Homework (Mini-Project Part III)  (due on  Checkmate  at 7:00 p.m. on Thursday, March 14)
    
 

  
 Read the assignment carefully  
 If an assignment asks for three examples, give three examples, not just one. This seems pretty simple, but you'd be surprised how often people 
just don't seem to read the assignment carefully. Meticulous attention to detail is essential in technical work; it's often not enough
just to "get the broad outlines." It's a good idea to read the assignment more than once, including one time after you think you've finished the work. 
 Justifying your arguments and writing clearly  
 As we have said before, when you evaluate or design an interface, it isn't enough just to state your conclusion ("I think this arrangement 
is confusing" or "I placed the Order button on the right"). You must justify your decisions in terms of the goals, principles, or guidelines
 that we are studying ("This arrangement is confusing because it includes unnecessary colors, which Kobsa's guidelines for general screen layout say to 
 avoid" or "I placed the Order button on the right because all the buttons for taking action on this web site are on the right, which follows the 
 usability heuristic of maintaining consistency with system conventions"). 
 We expect that all your writing in this course will be clear, concise, and well organized, following the conventions of standard academic English. While 
the occasional misplaced comma or grammatical misstep will pass beneath our notice, work whose clear expression is obscured by multiple flaws will receive a 
lower score. In HCI terms, the usability principle of adhering to standards and conventions dictates that your prose writing follow these norms. 
 It's a good idea to have close at hand a paperback English dictionary and a writing guide (such as  Writing from A to Z  by Ebest et al. or the 
 Little Penguin Handbook,  which are used in lower-division writing courses at UCI). 
 Assignment submission and illustrations  
 Where possible, we'd prefer that you submit your work completely in electronic form using Checkmate (checkmate.ics.uci.edu; see below). We also encourage 
you to use illustrations in your work whenever they make your point effectively. You should try, where you can, to produce those illustrations on the computer 
and incorporate them into your electronic documents. For existing web pages, you can take screen shots; if you don't know how to take a screen shot on whatever 
system(s) you use and paste those images into a document, now's the time to find out. For newly created designs, we do not expect your illustrations to be of 
polished, professional quality and we recognize that few computer-based drawing/layout/design tools are as quick and convenient as a hand-drawn sketch. 
The best approach to this would be to take a clear photo of your illustration (on your cellphone, for example) and include it in your electronic submission. If you still think a paper submission is necessary, contact us and we'll make arrangements.

 
 To get set up for electronic submission, go to  checkmate.ics.uci.edu , log in with your UCInet ID, choose 
"Course Listing" for "Winter 2013," click "Go" next to ICS 4, and then click "List me for this course." 
 Working in pairs or larger groups 
 Some of our assignments will be done in groups of two. (Others will be done individually or in larger groups.) 
  Why not individually? Because you learn more when you discuss the problems and the possible solutions. Also because you won't feel as isolated or 
  frustrated if you don't understand something: Either your partner will know the answer, so you can keep going, or else you'll know you're not alone in 
  not knowing, so you won't feel embarrassed about posting questions at Piazza.com. 
   Why not groups of three or more? With two people, both must be engaged; one person talks, the other listens (and we hope they switch roles frequently). 
  A third or fourth person can stop paying attention without bringing everything to a halt, and that's not good. (On the other hand, some tasks take more than 
  two people to carry out; we'll let you know when those come up.) 
   Does this mean I have to find someone else in the class (whom I may not know yet), ask if they want to be partners for the assignment,  exchange Email addresses and/or cellphone numbers, and then follow up?  Yes.  
   Does that mean my partner and I have to work out a schedule to meet, or at least communicate, about the assignment? Yes, it does. When you pick a partner 
    (or the members of a larger group), have a brief conversation about what your availability is. It won't be an excuse that you have to work in the afternoons 
  and your partner isn't free in the mornings. 
   Does this mean it's okay to split up the assignment, so that each partner does half? No. The assignments are designed to be enough work for one person; 
    we ask you to do them in pairs because you'll learn more that way. The goal isn't just to get answers onto the page; the goal is to learn from the experience 
  of working together on the problems. 
   What's the most dangerous aspect of working in pairs? One partner can be passive, letting the other take the lead and do the work. Then the passive partner 
    doesn't do well on the exams. This can happen especially when one partner has more experience or background than the other. It's each partner's job to ask enough 
    questions to master the concepts, and it's each partner's job to make sure that both partners get the answers they need. Sometimes it seems easier just to let 
    one partner take the lead, but that's a failure. Concepts can seem to make sense when you just hear them, but to be able to  apply  them (on an exam, 
    let's say), you have to be actively engaged in the assignments. 
  Plagiarism—don't do it 
 Plagiarism means presenting somebody else's work as if it's your own. You may use whatever outside sources (books, friends, interviews, periodicals) are 
appropriate for an assignment, so long as you cite them: Any time you use two or more words in a row that you didn't think up and write yourself, you must 
put the words in quotation marks and indicate where they came from. (There could be situations where this two-word rule isn't appropriate. If you think you 
have one, check with us.) Even if you paraphrase (state in your own words) someone else's work or ideas, you should cite the source (e.g., "Jakob Nielsen 
says that users should be informed about the status of the system"). Plagiarism is academically dishonest, and we expect that nobody in the class will engage in it. 
 Turning in another person's work as your own violates the honesty policies of ICS and UCI ( http://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/current/policies/index.php ). 
The School of ICS takes academic honesty very seriously and imposes serious penalties on students who violate its guidelines. Detected violations could result 
in your failing the course, having a letter filed with the school, and losing a variety of other benefits and privileges. We do check for academic dishonesty 
both manually and automatically. It is an unfortunate fact that nearly every quarter, some students in ICS classes are found to have violated these policies; 
to protect the privacy of the guilty, violations are not made public, but sadly, they do occur. Compared to the consequences of academic dishonesty, one low 
assignment score is a minor disadvantage. If you feel as if you're falling behind or have other difficulties, see the instructor; we will help you work around 
your trouble. No matter how pressured you feel, don't plagiarize; it's not worth it. 
 Most importantly, realize that getting "the answer" is only the last part of each assignment. Equally important is the process of getting the 
solution—including the false starts, bugs, misconceptions, and mistakes—because the learning occurs in the doing. Completely apart from the ethical 
issues, copying a solution deprives you of the whole point of the assignment. 
</body> 