 Bio | Padhraic Smyth 
 
 
  
 
  Close ×  
          
      Publications   
      Group   
      Projects   
      Short Bio   
      CV    
     Contact   
 
 ☰ 



 
    Padhraic Smyth: Biography  


Padhraic Smyth is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science, with a
joint appointment in the Department of Statistics, at the University of
California, Irvine (UCI). He is also the director since 2014 of the UCI
Data Science Initiative and served as founding director of the UCI Center for
Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems from 2007 to 2014. His
research interests include machine learning, data mining, pattern
recognition, and applied statistics and he has published over 160
papers on these topics. He is an ACM Fellow (2013), a AAAI Fellow
(2010), and a recipient of the ACM SIGKDD Innovation Award
(2009). He is co-author of the text Modeling the Internet and the
Web: Probabilistic Methods and Algorithms (with Pierre Baldi and Paolo
Frasconi in 2003) and Principles of Data Mining, MIT Press (with David
Hand and Heikki Mannila in 2001), and he served as program chair of the
ACM SIGKDD 2011 conference and the UAI 2013 conference. 

Padhraic has served in editorial and advisory positions for journals such as the
Journal of Machine Learning Research, the Journal of the American
Statistical Association, and the IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and
Data Engineering. While at UC Irvine he has received research funding
from agencies such as NSF, NIH, IARPA, NASA, and DOE, and from
companies such as Google, IBM, Experian, Xerox, and Microsoft. In
addition to his academic research he is also active in industry
consulting, working with companies such as eBay, Yahoo!, Microsoft,
Samsung, Oracle, Nokia, and AT&amp;T, as well as serving as scientific
advisor to local startups in Orange County. He also served as an
academic advisor to Netflix for the Netflix prize competition from 2006
to 2009. 

Padhraic received a first class honors degree in Electronic Engineering from
National University of Ireland (Galway) in 1984, and the MSEE and PhD
degrees (in 1985 and 1988 respectively) in Electrical Engineering from
the California Institute of Technology. From 1988 to 1996 he was a
Technical Group Leader at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, and
has been on the faculty at UC Irvine since 1996. 


 </body> 