 Emerging Configurations » EVOKE Lab and Studio 


  



 

		
		 
			 EVOKE Lab and Studio 
		 


		   Home  
  About  
  News  
  Events  
  Projects  
  People  
  Blog  
  Contact  
   
 
		 
			 You Are Viewing 
			 Category Archives: Emerging Configurations 
		 

		 
			 

				
				
				  Hollowing ‘I’ in the authorship of letters: A note on Flusser and surveillance  
					 
						  March 19, 2014 
							 By  John Seberger  
							 In  Emerging Configurations  
							 1 Comment 
						  

					 
						
					 Although the 24-hour news cycle has recently moved on from Snowden and  surveillance to cover the latest set of unfortunate circumstances on Capitol Hill, there are some points I would like to make regarding the role of surveillance in the further dissolution of any sense of a human author that might underlie the use of […] 

					 
					 
						 Read More » 					 
				  Evoke members @ Western Humanities Alliance 2013  
					 
						  October 21, 2013 
							 By  Cory Knobel  
							 In  Emerging Configurations ,  News  
							 No Comments 
						  

					 
						
					 Geoffrey C. Bowker, Cory Knobel, and John S. Seberger will be presenting on ‘Emerging Modes of Knowledge Expression’ at the annual meeting of the Western Humanities Alliance at University of California, San Diego on November 1, 2013. The conference is hosted by the UCSD Center for the Humanities. The theme of the conference is New […] 

					 
					 
						 Read More » 					 
				  Geof Bowker Speaks at NYU  
					 
						  April 9, 2013 
							 By  Cory Knobel  
							 In  Emerging Configurations ,  Knowledge Infrastructures ,  News  
							 No Comments 
						  

					 
						
					 Along with Sara Hendren (Harvard), Geof will be a speaker in the PROGRAM series at NYU organized by the departments of Media, Culture and Communication, English, and Comparative Literature. More event details can be found here. Values in Technological Design Abstract: The goal for many designers of technology is to produce objects that are useful, […] 

					 
					 
						 Read More » 					 
				  Geof Bowker Speaks at Michigan  
					 
						  April 9, 2013 
							 By  Cory Knobel  
							 In  Emerging Configurations ,  News  
							 No Comments 
						  

					 
						
					 Geof will be speaking as part of the Yahoo! Lecture Series at the University of Michigan’s School of Information on April 10, 2013. The End of the Article Abstract: In this talk, I analyze the development of the scientific article as the coin of the realm for the transmission of knowledge. I argue that the […] 

					 
					 
						 Read More » 					 
				 
			  
		 

		


 
	 

		 

 

	

		

  		 		  Recent Posts  		  
				 [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster 
						 
					 
				 My Day as a Data Dealer 
						 
					 
				 Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes 
						 
					 
				 Hollowing ‘I’ in the authorship of letters: A note on Flusser and surveillance 
						 
				     Recent Comments     zapyadownload.co/  on  My Day as a Data Dealer    apk for pc  on  Social Capital    http://www./  on  Social Capital    chhota bheem  on  Social Capital    http://www./  on  Social Capital       Archives  		   June 2014  
	  March 2014  
	  October 2013  
	  May 2013  
	  April 2013  
	  March 2013  
		     Categories  		   Values in Design 
 
	  Knowledge Infrastructures 
 
	  Data/Self 
 
	  Emerging Configurations 
 
	  Blog 
 
	  News 
 
		     Meta  			   Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  						  
	 

 
	  

		 EVOKE Lab &amp; Studio @ University of California-Irvine © 2017   ^ Top  

	 
</body> 