 

 Scotland (and England) 

 
 
 "It is to Scotland that we look for our idea of cilivisation." 
-- Voltaire.
 

 
Yes, Scotland and England are  different countries . Both are
member nations of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland (the other two being Northern Ireland and Wales). Referring to
Great Britain or to the United Kingdom as "England" is a good way to
piss off a Scot.
 

 
You see, it's not just that we're different countries. You have to
appreciate that we've only been part of the same country for a few
hundred years, and that we'd spent most of the preceeding thousand
years at war with each other.
 

 
When the Romans invaded Britain, they soon gave up trying to take
Scotland, having found the Scottish land inhospitable and the Scottish
people less than entirely pleased to see them. The Roman solution was
to build walls to keep the Scots out (portions of both the Antonine
Wall and the better-known Hadrian's Wall are still visible).
 

 
At that point, Scotland was still a collection of smaller fiefdoms,
generally at war with each other. (There wasn't much else to do.)
Through a series of conquests, though, gradually these various
independent groups came togehter to form a unified nation, with
various fits and starts, between about 1030 and 1130.
 

 
And so Scotland and England continued as separate countries, with
regular border skirmishes, for hundreds of years. Edward I of England
(known as the "Hammer of the Scots") was particularly obsessed with
the idea of claiming the Scottish lands as his own. He did pretty
well, too, but, after a number of Scottish uprisings, Edward was
finally trounced at the Battle of Bannockburn in 1314 by Robert the
Bruce, subsequently Robert I of Scotland. Scotland, a free nation
again, asserted its independence in the
 
Declaration of Arbroath , a letter from the Scottish aristocracy to
the Pope.
 

 
Things got heated again around about the time of the Reformation.
Elizabeth I of England was rather worried about the popularity of her
cousin, the new Scottish Queen,
 Mary (Queen of Scots) ; but in
particular, Elizabeth was worried about the religious angle. Mary had
been brought up in Catholic France, where she had married the Dauphin
(the French crown prince), who subsequently died. When Mary began her
personal reign in 1561, rumours were rife that she might marry the crown
prince of Spain, another major Catholic power; and that would have 
left Elizabeth in a very dangerous position. European Catholics were
pretty unhappy about the behaviour of Elizabeth's father, Henry VIII,
and wanted to reclaim England for Rome.
 

 
So Elizabeth schemed and arranged for Mary to marry one of Elizabeth's
courtiers, Henry, Lord Darnley, in 1565. It was never a
particular happy marriage, but Mary bore Darnley a son, James.
Darnley, however, was jealous of Mary's close relationship to her
(Catholic) secretary, David Riccio; and, on March 9, 1566, Mary,
pregnant with James, witnessed as a gang of
Darnley and his drunken friends grabbed Riccio at  
Holyrood Palace  and brutally murdered him. Pointedly, it was
Darnley's dagger that was left in the body.
 

 
Things went downhill fast after that; religious tension was running
high, since Scotland was in the midst of a religious reformation,
headed by
 
John Knox .
Darnley himself was murdered (strangled, and the house he was in
partly blown up) in February 1567. Mary was abducted by the Earl of
Bothwell, and then married him in May that year. But she couldn't last
long, and abdicated later in the year, in favour of her son, James.
 

 
Eventually, Mary fled south to try to get help from her cousin,
Elizabeth. Elizabeth seized the opportunity and had Mary arrested.
After a personal reign of just six years, Mary was to spend
the next twenty years under house arrest in England, before finally
being beheaded in 1587.
 

 
When Elizabeth died, childless and without having named a successor,
this left the English parliament in a
rather unfortunate position, since the closest person in line for her
throne was James -- the son of Elizabeth's cousin Mary, and the King
of Scotland, whose personal reign had begun in 1585.
The English invited James to take the throne of England,
and so 1603 saw the  Union of the Crowns ; a single monarch over
both England and Scotland, still two separate countries. James became
James VI of Scotland and James I of England, known (now) as James the
VI and I. (Notice, by the way, that this is  after  Elizabeth I.
Britain's current monarch is claimed to be Elizabeth II; but in fact
she's only Elizabeth II of  England . As far as Scotland, or
Britain, is concerned, she's only Elizabeth I. This caused a certain
amount of upset in Scotland when she came to the throne.)
 

 
Things get a little confusing after that, since James' son, Charles I,
had a little trouble with a guy called Oliver Cromwell. Confusion and
dispute during the Restoration--and in particular the English
parliament's offer of the throne to William of Orange in order to
secure a Protestant succession--led to a succession of Jacobite
claimants to the throne, living in France, from where two Scottish
rebellions were subsequently to be organised (in 1715 and 1745).
However, in 1707, during the reign of William's daughter, Anne,
legislation was finally enacted to unify the kingdoms.
 

 
And so, a little over 100 years after the Union of the Crowns, the two
countries saw the  Union of the Parliaments  in 1707, and became
member nations of a United Kingdom of Great Britain. (Ireland wasn't
added until 1801, at which point it became the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland; after 1921, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland.)
 

 
Of course, after less than 300 years, some of the details are still a
little rough. For instance, the third verse of the National Anthem for
the United Kingdom commemerates General Wade, the military overseer of
Scotland installed by the English between the 1715 and 1745 uprisings:
 

 

God grant that Marshall Wade 
May by thy mighty aid 
Victory bring 
May He sedition hush 
And like a torrent rush 
Rebellious Scots to crush 
God Save the King.
  
Since I first wrote this web page, in 1996, things have changed. In
particular, the current Labour administration in the UK has created a
Scottish parliament, with jurisdiction over local matters such as
edication and agriculture, and with limited tax-raising powers. This
is the first elected Scottish parliament since 1707, and on 
May 12, 1999, Winnie Ewing MSP opened it with the words, 
"The Scottish Parliament, adjourned on 25th day of March 1707, is
hereby reconvened." 

 

 
Scotland looks
 like this .
 

 
    Paul Dourish    