 press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Press releases  


     
 Press release 

 
 





  January 27,  2010</strong>  Search Engine Developed to Help Haiti Victims</strong>  
Irvine, Calif., January 27, 2010 – Computer Science Professor Chen Li and six students are participating in a global effort of building a web portal called “Person Finder: Haiti Earthquake” ( http://haiticrisis.appspot.com/ ) hosted by Google to help people find, identify, and reunite with the loved ones that have gone missing as a result of the recent earthquake in Haiti.  The ICS team has also developed a search interface available at  http://fr.ics.uci.edu/haiti/ .
  Many volunteers around the world are actively contributing to the “Person Finder: Haiti Earthquake” project in order to collect data about affected people and import the data into a central repository. The team, led by Prof. Li, is contributing records to the repository by crawling and pulling data from various websites, including CNN iReport and Red Cross. The team is also studying how to make the information more discoverable by developing a powerful search interface. Contributing members include students: Sattam Alsubaiee, Alexander Behm, Inci Cetindil, Shengyue Ji, Dustin Lakin, and Rares Vernica. The team began their work over the holiday weekend that immediately followed the disaster.
  The Haiti Earthquake project is part of Prof. Li’s Family Reunification project, which was developed originally to aid efforts in reuniting families after the Hurricane Katrina disaster in 2005.  Using a singular search engine from which families can search for lost persons, users can quickly scan ever-changing databases, without having to visit each web site independently.
  Li’s collective search engine utilizes a technology that helps make information access easier by supporting “type-ahead, fuzzy” search. The developed techniques can search for results as users type in query keywords character by character. The techniques can even find records that match a keyword approximately. For example, if a user searches for people by typing in a name "emanuel philippe", their fuzzy search can also find similar names such as "manuel philip". Similar techniques have been used to implement the PSearch project  http://psearch.ics.uci.edu/ , which supports type-ahead, fuzzy search on the UCI directory.
  Li's research interests are in the fields of database and information systems, including Web search, data integration, data warehouses, data cleansing, and data-intensive computing. His research is supported by grants from the National Science Foundation (NSF), gift funds from Google and Microsoft, and a fund from Calit2.   
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 