 Projects | Padhraic Smyth 

 
  
 
  Close ×  
          
      Publications   
      Group   
      Projects   
      Short Bio   
      CV    
     Contact   
 
 ☰ 




    Research Projects  

Projects in the Smyth group span a variety of topics involving fundamental research on basic aspects of 
statistical machine learning, including   time-series and sequence modeling,
image and spatial data analysis, latent variable models, predictive modeling, deep learning, and more. We are
also involved in numerous applications with collaborators, applying machine learning
and statistical techniques to solve real-world problems across a variety of application
areas in engineering, science, health and business.   
Students interested in joining our research group should apply to either the
Computer Science or Statistics PhD programs at UC Irvine.
 

 
Below are some examples of current projects in our group:
 


   

 
   
Machine learning and statistical modeling for individual-level data     
Models and algorithms for predicting individual-level user behavior from sparse temporal and spatial
event data. Funded by the National Science Foundation and by gift funding from Adobe, Google, and Xerox.
  
   
 
  
    
Statistical and generative models in deep learning     
Development of theories and techniques that bridge statistical generative modeling and methods from deep learning.
Funded by the National Science Foundation.
  
   
 
 
   
 Statistical modeling of digital forensics data    
Statistical models for analyzing time-series event data from digital devices such as mobile phones 
using approaches such as Markov-modulated Poisson models and change-detection algorithms. This project
is part of the CSAFE project which is funded by the National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST),
in collaboration with CMU, Iowa State, and the University of Virginia.
  
   
 
  
    
Machine learning techniques for medical diagnosis   
Hierarchical mixture models for analysis of multivariate cell-level flow-cytometry data with 
applications to medical diagnosis. 
In collaboration with the J. Craig Venter Institute, UCSD, and Stanford
University. Funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
  
   
 
  
    
 Analyzing human dialog with applications to healthcare    
Sequential modeling and classification of transcribed dialog between doctors and patients, using
techniques such as topic models, hidden Markov models and recurrent neural networks.
In collaboration with the University of Utah, University of Washington,  USC,
and Professor Mark Steyvers (Cognitive Science, UCI).
Funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and PCORI.
  
   
 
 
   
    
 Climate and environmental data analysis    
Spatio-temporal models for analyzing and predicting environmental and climate processes using
 satellite data related to precipitation, temperature, land-use, wildfires, and more. 
In collaboration with the Earth Systems Science Department at UCI.
Funded by NASA and the National Science Foundation.
  
   
 
  
    
 Machine learning for analysis of online student data    
Models that can extract useful information about student behavior
from time-series clickstream data based on student online activity over multiple classes. 
In collaboration with the Department of Education at UCI.
Funded by the National Science Foundation.
  
   
 
  

   </body> 