 academic honesty @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  policies  


     
 Undergraduate Student Policies 

 
 

  Academic Honesty  
 Every student should be familiar with the  UCI Academic Senate Policies on Academic Honesty . This text is also duplicated in the appendix of the  UCI General Catalogue . The policies outlined for the campus also apply within the Bren School. 
 (And if you are not familiar with UCI's Code of Student Conduct, which is another aspect of academic integrity, we would encourage you to also take the time to explore the website of the  Office of Student Conduct !) 
   
      »</strong>  Academically Honest Conduct </strong> 
 To be academically integrous means holding to values such as honesty, fairness, respect, and accountability in your scholastic pursuits. Students are expected to follow the rules and guidelines established by instructors for assignments and exams, and to accept responsibility for his or her own work. Examples of academically honest conduct are: 
  Turning in work done alone or with the help of the course's staff (instructor, teaching assistant, or reader). 
 Submission of one assignment for a group of students if group work is explicitly permitted (or required). 
 Getting or giving help on how to operate the computer or terminal. 
 Getting or giving help on how to eliminate minor syntax errors. 
 High-level discussion of course material for better comprehension. 
 Discussion of assignments with the instructor or TA to better understand what is being asked for. 
 Seeking help from course staff and/or other campus resources if you do not understand the material or are feeling overwhelmed by your courseload. 
    
    »   Academically Dishonest Conduct</strong> 
 Actions associated with academic dishonesty include cheating, lying, plagiarizing, forging, and stealing. Examples of such behavior in the classroom are: 

  Turning in someone else's work as your own (with  or  without his or her knowledge). Submitting a completely duplicated assignment is a flagrant offense, but even copying only a portion of the assignment and turning it in as your own is considered cheating. 
 Allowing someone else to turn in  your  work as his or her own. 
 Several people writing one program and turning in multiple copies, all represented (implicitly or explicitly) as individual work. 
 Using  any  part of some else's work without proper acknowledgement. This is plagiarism. 
 Stealing an examination or a solution from the instructor. This is an extremely flagrant offense. 
  For instance, an example of  program plagiarism</strong> would be if an assignment that calls for independent development and implementation of a program (assignment intent and specified ground rules) results in two or more solutions so similar that one can be converted to another by a mechanical transformation. Or,  cheating</strong> might be suspected if a student who was to complete an assignment independently cannot explain both the intricacies of his or her solution and the techniques used to generate that solution. 
 Any case in which academic dishonesty is suspected is given careful, individual scrutiny. The intent of an assignment, the ground rules specified by the instructor, and the behavior of the student are all factors considered before a decision is made. 
  In the event that an instructor writes a letter accusing a student of academic dishonesty, the student may prepare a statement giving his or her side of the case for inclusion in the student's file.  
   
    »</strong>  Penalties of Academic Dishonesty</strong> 
    A recorded incident of academic dishonesty may disqualify you for consideration for honors at graduation. 
 A first incident of academic dishonesty (if egregious) may be sufficient to cause suspension or dismissal from the University; a second incident likely will result in suspension or dismissal. 
 An incident of academic dishonesty is sufficient to cause denial of a petition to change major into the Bren School. 
 An incident of academic dishonesty may be sufficient to cause denial of admission into the Bren School Honors Program. 
      
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 