 
	Crowd Development – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	 			
					 
				 Crowd Development  				
				 
						 Crowd development is a development process designed for transient workers of varying skill. Work is organized into microtasks, which are short, self-descriptive, and modular. Microtasks recursively spawn other microtasks and are matched to workers, who accrue points by completion and quality. Crowd development could help to reduce time to market and software development costs, increase programmer productivity, and make programming more fun. 
   
   
 Highlights 
  What if a large application could be built in a day? What if software development felt more like a game? What if grandma or grandpa’s hobby was writing software? Realizing this vision requires addressing many challenges. But these challenges reflect important, fundamental questions about the nature of software engineering work, whose answers might lead to a better understanding of topics such as modularity, expertise, task interdependencies, and coordination.  
  Decomposing tasks into microtasks</strong> – How can software development tasks be decomposed into microtasks that are only a few seconds or minutes long? Can a software development microtask be done by a transient worker with no knowledge of the project? Can a worker reason completely modularly about only an artifact and the interfaces of artifacts on which it depends? 
  Coordinating the crowd</strong> – How can a crowd create a system with conceptual integrity? What interdependencies between microtasks must be managed? How can a crowd make decisions? How can knowledge be presented to transient workers that do not know the right questions to ask. 
  Ensuring quality</strong> – How can quality software be produced by workers that come and go and that may be malicious or mistaken? 
  Incentivizing good behavior</strong> – How can workers be motivated to work on an unpopular microtask or invest extra effort to achieve long-term benefits? 
   
 Key publications 
  T. D. LaToza, E. Chiquillo, W. B. Towne, C. M. Adriano, and A. van der Hoek. (2013).  CrowdCode: a platform for crowd development.  In CrowdConf, October 2013. 
 T. D. LaToza, W. B. Towne, A. van der Hoek, J. D. Herbsleb,  Crowd development , Sixth International Workshop on Cooperative and Human Aspects of Software Engineering, May 2013, pages 85–88.  poster  
    
 Team Members 
   Thomas LaToza  (contact) 
  Ben Towne  
  Christian M. Adriano  
    
 Past Team Members 
  Arturo Di Lecce 
 Fabio Ricci 
 Lucinda Lim 
 Janina Paragele 
 Eric Chiquillo 
 Vasken Houdoverdov 
 Steven Morad 
 Patrick Nguyen 
    
										 
                
                

			
		
	

			 
				
				  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 