 An Architectural Approach for Decentralized Trust Management | Virtual Collaboration Portal 


    

     
     

       
         
           Virtual Collaboration Portal            

                     Home  
  Groups  
  Collaborators  
   

               
           
  
   
  Search this site:  
  
 

 
            

   Navigation 

      Bibliography    Authors  
  Keywords  
  
  Reading Lists  
  Web Links  
  Gallery  
  Recent posts  
  Acknowledgements  
  
 
 

   User login 

   
  
  Username:  *  
  
 
  Password:  *  
  
    Request new password  
   
 
 
         
      
          
            Home  ›  Bibliography                                 An Architectural Approach for Decentralized Trust Management                                                    
             

 
   


       Mon, 2009-08-24 14:36 — taylor 
  
   
           Title  An Architectural Approach for Decentralized Trust Management     Publication Type  Magazine Article     Year of Publication  2005     Authors   Suryanarayana, G. ,  J. R. Erenkrantz , and  R. N. Taylor      Magazine  IEEE Internet Computing     Volume  9     Issue Number  6     Pagination  16-23     Date Published  November/Decembe     Abstract   To guard against malicious peers, peer-to-peer applications must incorporate suitable trust mechanisms. Current decentralized trust-management research focuses mainly on producing trust models and algorithms, whereas the actual composition of trust models into real applications has been largely unexplored. The practical architectural approach for composing egocentric trust (Pace) provides detailed design guidance on where and how developers can incorporate trust models into decentralized applications. In addition, Pace's guiding principles promote countermeasures against threats to decentralized systems. Several prototypes demonstrate the approach's use and feasibility. 
     URL   http://doi.ieeecomputersociety.org/10.1109/MIC.2005.119          

   
     
         

               Login  to post comments  
  
       

 
           
                      
           

      
      
   


  </body> 