 Chimera 2.0 Tutorial: Chimera CLASSPATH setup for Solaris<body>
 

 Setting CLASSPATH on Solaris to include chimera2b2.jar 

  
This section contains an example of appending chimera2b2.jar to the CLASSPATH 
environment variable.
The chimera2b2.jar file contains the server programs needed to run
Chimera 2.0 beta 2.  There are a number of packages which Chimera 2.0 uses 
in order to perform.  These packages should 
be in your CLASSPATH.  Your CLASSPATH should end up including:
 

  the path to swing 1.0.1 (See  
	Preparing your System for Chimera  )
	 
	Note: swing 1.0.1 is included in JFC 1.1 which is included in JDK 1.2 beta 3.

      the path to JSDK 1.0.1 (See  
	Preparing your System for Chimera  )
	 
	Note: swing and JSDK are included in JDK 1.2.

      the path to HTTPClient 0.3 (See  
	Preparing your System for Chimera  )

      the path to Rivendell 0.6 (See  
	Preparing your System for Chimera  )

      the path to MSXML 1.8 (See  
	Preparing your System for Chimera  )

      

      the path to chimera2b2.jar
   
Note: The example below uses the tcsh shell.
 

 Setting the CLASSPATH to chimera2b2.jar 

  There are a number of commands you can use to append your environment 
variable.  To set the CLASSPATH variable to include the path to chimera.jar,
you may use any technique which will append the path to chimera.jar to
your CLASSPATH.  The following is one way you could change your CLASSPATH.
 

  You should have your chimera2b2.jar file somewhere you have access to it.
In the screen-shot below, the file is in the directory /home/yuzok/classes
on the testor's machine.
 

   

  You can use the setenv command in the following way when you
want to append to the CLASSPATH value. The command will look like this:
  setenv CLASSPATH $CLASSPATH': path_to_chimera.jar ' 
 
Note: For tcsh, the two ' are needed to quote the colon symbol : which
would otherwise be interpreted by the tcsh shell.
The meaning of the command is -- set CLASSPATH to the previous 
value of CLASSPATH plus all
the characters from the first ' to the last '.
The screen-shot below displays the appending using setenv command.
 

   


  You now have the chimera2b2.jar file for Chimera 2.0 in the 
CLASSPATH. (Chimera 2.0 beta 2 is contained in the chimera2b2.jar file)
 

</body> 