 
	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                             
        	
		
		    
  
            
 
 
 
	 Calico 
	 ...an intuitive sketch-based design environment for use on touch-based devices... 
	  
	   
 
	 PorchLight 
	 ...a desktop bug tracker interface designed to support effective bug triaging... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Development 
	 ...a cloud IDE for building software with a crowd... 
	  
	   
 
	 CodeExchange 
	 ...supporting iterative internet-scale code search... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Debugging 
	 How hundreds of workers can help locate faults in software?  
	  
	   
 
	 CrowdDesign 
	 ...crowd sourced software designs [...] 
	  
	   
 

             
            
             
                  Welcome 			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design. 
		              
         
                
         
			 
            	 	
			 
     
         May 15  16  
          Lee’s MSR 2015 talk                     
     

				
     
         Lee has just presented his paper “Sameness: An Experiment in Code Search”. 
     
        
           Posted in    conference   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Lee’s MSR 2015 talk   
         
     
  												  
     
         Apr 15  16  
          Welcome Edgar!                     
     

				
     
         Edgar is a new master student joining the lab. He is currently interested in investigating approaches to crowdsource software design. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Welcome Edgar!   
         
     
  												  
     
         Mar 15  28  
          Fernando and his team won best presentation at iConference                     
     

				
     
          “Racial Violence Archive: Public Information System on Incidents of Violence during the Civil Rights Period”  
by Fernando Spanghero, Hosub Lee, Michael Bellato, Sowmya Jain,  Roeland Singer-heinze, Ya-Wen Lin, Sunakshi Gupta, and Geoff Ward. The faculty Sponsors were Alfred Kobsa and Geoff Ward. 
 Here’s a teaser:  http://owl.li/KPXjN  
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Fernando and his team won best presentation at iConference   
         
     
  												  
     
         Mar 15  19  
          Paper accepted in MSR-2015!                     
     

				
     
         Congratulations Lee!! 
 L. Martie and A. van der Hoek,  “Sameness: An Experiment in Code Search”</strong>, Proceedings of the 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Paper accepted in MSR-2015!   
         
     
  												  
     
         Mar 15  19  
          Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams?                     
     

				
     
         We have just categorized 441 comments  Lee Martie  collected in his latest experiment with   CodeExchange  . It took 1h15min for a crowd of nine people to do the job! 
      
   
      Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams?   
         
     
  												  
     
         Feb 15  9  
          We won the Reddit Hackathon!                     
     

				
     
         The competition happened on Jan 10th and is part of a new  data science initiative  aimed at coordinating UCI scientists who are working on various aspects of data science. 
 Our team was composed by Christian Adriano (SDCL), Vijay Palepu ( Spider Lab ), and Rianne Conijn (visitor Master student).     
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on We won the Reddit Hackathon!   
         
     
  												  
     
         Feb 15  6  
          Welcome Fernando                     
     

				
     
         Welcome Fernando!  
 Fernando Spanghero is a new master student joining our research group. His interested in software design, more specifically in developing sketching tools. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Welcome Fernando   
         
     
  												  
     
         Feb 15  6  
          Welcome Martín                     
     

				
     
         Welcome Martín!  
 Martín Medina is a new master student joining our research group. He has work experience in software development and he will be working with Lee Martie in  CodeExchange  project. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  adrianoc .
          Comments Off  on Welcome Martín   
         
     
  												  
     
         Dec 14  5  
          Congrats Dr. Nick Lopez                     
     

				
     
         Congrats are in order to Nick Lopez, who just finished defending his Ph.D. dissertation on the impact of non-determinism of LDA in software engineering! 
 Afterwards, there was a post-defense celebratory lunch!     
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Congrats Dr. Nick Lopez   
         
     
  												  
     
         Nov 14  20  
          Nick dissertation award!                     
     

				
     
         Nick Mangano receives his ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Dissertation Award at FSE 2014 in Hong Kong, and is supported by Lee and Thomas who are both there as well to present at the Context workshop. 
         
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Nick dissertation award!   
         
     
  												 	    
         
          « Previous Page  
          Next Page »  
          
     
    
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			      
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 