 Geometry in Action: Astronomy<body>

 
 
  
 
  
  Astronomy 

Computational geometry problems arise in astronomy in observation planning,
shape reconstruction for irregular bodies such as asteroids,
clustering for galaxy distribution analysis, and
 hierarchical decomposition  of point sets for
n-body simulations.
     Applications
of the linear quadtree to astronomical databases , P. Barrett, NASA.
Encoding astronomical coordinates with quadtrees can provide significant
improvements in efficiency when accessing sources near a given direction
and can aid in the correlation of positions from different astronomical
catalogs.
 
    Castalia  and
 Deimos .
Philip Stook at U. Western Ontario
mentions an application of 3d convex hulls in mapping the surfaces
of these two asteroids.
 
    Computer science and astrophysics , R. Anderson.
 
    Cosmology at
the University of Kentucky . This group works on large-scale
structure formation, using methods including N-body simulations and
minimum spanning trees.
 
    Data
Collection for the Sloan Digital Sky Survey - A Network Flow Heuristic ,
Robert Lupton, F. Miller Maley, and Neal E. Young, SODA '96, describes a
planar clustering problem
arising in planning the telescope positions for a sky survey,
and gives a heuristic solution.
 
    Fast
hierarchical methods for the n-body problem , CS 267, Berkeley, 1995.
 
    Finding
quasar superstructures .
M. Graham and co-authors use 2d and 3d minimum spanning
trees for finding clusters of quasars and Seyfert galaxies.
 
    Galaxy formation with n-body simulations .
J. K. Salmon et al. study galaxy formation by simulating systems of
roughly 10^7 particles, using codes based on a k-D-tree-like recursive
orthogonal partition.
 
    Inverse
nearest neighbors  for astrophysical N-body simulations, R. Anderson,
M. Cary, and B. Tjaden, U. Washington.
 
    A minimal spanning tree analysis of the CfA redshift survey .  Dan Lauer uses minimum spanning trees to understand the large-scale structure of the universe.
 
    Minkowski
Operations for Satellite Antenna Layout , J-D. Boissonnat, E. de
Lange, and M. Teillaud, SCG 1997.
 
    Parallel
n-body simulations  using hierarchical octree representations of space.
 
    Partition
based point pattern analysis methods for investigation of spatial
structure of various stellar populations , L. Pásztor, ADASS '94.
 
    The
Well-Separated Pair Decomposition and its Applications ,
Paul Callahan's Johns Hopkins Ph.D. thesis
on hierarchical space decomposition
and its applications to n-body simulation.
 
     
Part of
 Geometry in Action ,
a collection of applications of computational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 