 undergraduate degree in business information management @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  Degrees  


     
 Undergraduate degree in Business Information Management 

 
 

 Are you interested in business as much as technology? Do you want to learn how to build a data-driven sales and marketing plan? Would you love a career at one of the major consulting firms? Do you like to solve analytical problems? Do you want to be part of a highly interdisciplinary team setting corporate strategy? If you answered yes to one or more of these questions, UC Irvine’s business information management major just might be the choice for you. 
 What will I learn? 
 The B.S. in business information management is designed around a set of core courses that introduce the fundamentals of computing (programming, requirements analysis, information retrieval and visualization, databases), business (accounting, finance, marketing, management), and analytical methods (statistics, economics, business intelligence, decision analysis). From there, more than two dozen electives offer students the chance to specialize in topics as diverse as global strategy, branding and design, social and organizational aspects of computing, project management and more. 
 Throughout the major, you study a variety of business cases and gain hands-on experience in a variety of forums. Projects range from learning to understand and use technology that gathers data, to practicing methods and techniques for distilling that data into meaningful information, to analyzing and proposing strategic directions. Many projects are inspired by past and current real-world situations, providing you with practice directly relevant to your future career. 
 Overall, the major strongly emphasizes how raw business data is gathered, stored, analyzed and distilled into valuable strategic information, all with a proper understanding of the technical, social, ethical and organizational challenges that are involved. Additionally, students learn how to adapt to ever-changing business conditions — whether it is new disruptive technologies, trends, rules and regulations or corporate strategies. 
 Careers 
 Because technology drives nearly all aspects of business and innovation today, demand for business information management majors is strong. The majority finds employment at consulting companies, though many find a home in specialized industries as well. Many squarely focus on joining for-profit organizations; others succeed in bringing their skills to and excelling at nonprofits. Of course, graduate school in business, information systems, informatics, law or related field is a career path that some of our students also choose to take after they complete the major. 
 Qualifications 
 We welcome students with a variety of backgrounds. We have had many students join who were more interested in the computing aspects of the major, others who were more interested in the business and analytical aspects. Both groups are successful in the major. If you have an interest in solving problems, aspire to creative thinking and have an affinity with business and organizational concerns, business information management can be for you. 
 Why business information management at UC Irvine? 
   Excellence</strong>. You will be part of a world-class group of faculty and staff who have an outstanding track record of delivering innovative educational experiences in — and beyond — the classroom. 
  Depth</strong>. With no fewer than ten courses dedicated to business information management, and dozens more on topics closely surrounding it, you receive an education that prepares you very well for the many challenges that will arise in your future career. 
  Connections</strong>. Our alumni have gone on to study in some of the most prestigious Ph.D. programs; work for well-known, innovative corporations; and found successful startups. We stay in touch with them, and can help connect you for internships that complement your studies. 
  Location</strong>. Orange County has a vibrant business community, with, as just a few examples, numerous financial, biomedical, consulting, entertainment and real-estate companies around. 
  Detailed requirements 
 Please see the  catalogue  for a detailed description of the requirements of the Business Information Management major. 
 More information 

 
Prospective and current UCI students interested in learning more about the Bren School’s degree options are encouraged to meet with the school’s 
counselors and student ambassadors. They will help you determine which of our majors and minors best support your academic strengths and 
interests. Call our Student Affairs Office at 949-824-5156 to make an appointment. 



  
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 