 ICS 252-Introduction to Computer Design 

 

  Spring 2010  

  seminar on
cyber physical systems (cps)    

 (CS259s / CS295) 

     

 Instructors:  Prof.
Nikil Dutt and Prof. Eli Bozorgzadeh, Computer Science Department    

 When:  Thurs.
2:00-4:30 p.m.  

    Location:           DBH
4011     

  Brief Description:    

 Cyber physical systems focus on integration of the system
computation and physical components. Although embedded systems research targets
generation of systems for highly constrained and tightly embedded applications,
the contribution has been loosely coupled with sensors and physical elements of
the systems. As a result, CPS aims at network of computational components and
physical components as opposed to only (part of) computational components of
the target system. With advances in CPS, the system development for
applications such as automotives, health care, and transportation will be
improved in term of reliability, integrity, and adaptivity.  

 CPS is recognized as a key area of research in the US as
well as in Europe and Asia. The term cyber physical system is very broad and
encompasses various research topics from software and modeling to systems,
networking, and control in computer science and engineering. In this weekly
seminar, we first plan to introduce cyber physical systems, what CPS systems
are and what differentiate them from embedded systems. Then, we will discuss
several related papers. Please use the links below to get further information
on CPS. 

  Tentative Seminar Schedule    

     

 Thursday April 1, Introduction to CPS 

 Speakers: Nikil Dutt, Eli Bozorgzadeh, and Sung-Soo Lim 

       

  Useful Links     

    Cyber Physical
     Systems Week (CPS WEEK)  /For previous year proceedings check  ACM library )    
    Cyber Physical
     System Summer School at Georgia tech     
    Cyber Physical System
     Forum     
    Cyber
     Physical System Lab at UCLA     
    Cartel
     at MIT: Example of CPS     
      

     

 

</body> 