 Directions to UCI<body>


 
  
 
 Parking Information and Directions to the  
UC Irvine McDonnell Douglas Auditorium  
including  Purchasing a Parking Permit  

If this is your first visit to UCI, you should be aware that
it is not easy to figure out the campus. We recommend that you get a 
 
map  with building numbers.
 
 
Parking permits are required at UCI.
  

Plan to arrive at least 30 minutes early to ensure you get a parking
space, and to allow time to purchase a permit and to walk to the 
McDonnell Douglas Auditorium.

  


   

 From South    
Take the 405 North to the University/Jeffrey exit.   
Left onto University (it's Jeffrey if you go right).   
Left onto Culver.   
Right onto Campus.   
Left onto East Peltason Drive (was: Berkeley Dr.), which takes you into UCI.  
Pull over on East Peltason Drive as soon as you enter UCI and purchase a 
permit at the automated machine ($4 - quarters or $1 bills).
This permit enables you to park for the whole day.  
Proceed forward.  
Go through the lighted intersection at Pereira Rd.   
Go right at the second stop sign (Gabrielino Rd.), and park in lot 18C.   
As you enter, use the portion 
of the lot on the left. When you turn into that part of the lot, you will be 
facing the Engineering Gateway building.
 

 

   


  Directions from North    
Take the 405 South to the Jamboree exit.   
Right onto Jamboree.   
Left onto Campus.   
Go past   West  Peltason Drive.  
Right onto  East  Peltason Drive (was: Berkeley Dr.) which takes 
you into UCI.  
Pull over on East Peltason Drive as soon as you enter UCI and purchase 
a permit at the automated machine ($4 - quarters or $1 bills).
This permit enables you to park for the whole day.  
Proceed forward through the lighted intersection at Pereira Rd.   
Go right at the second stop sign (Gabrielino Rd.), and park in lot 18C.   
As you enter, use the portion 
of the lot on the left. When you turn into that part of the lot, you will be 
facing the Engineering Gateway building.
 

 
   

  Directions to the McDonnell Douglas Auditorium    
Note that buildings are labeled with their names and numbers; look near
the roofs.
  
 
The McDonnell Douglas Auditorium (building #311), is a red brick building
with a copper roof.
It is located behind the pale peach/yellow/gray
Engineering Gateway building (building #321) with the metal smoke stacks, 
and is near the gray ICS and Engineering Research Facility (IERF) 
buildings (#310).  
 
  


 Back to IRUS home page 

   
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Department of Information and Computer Science   
University of California, Irvine  
Irvine, CA 92697-3425  

</body> 