 yong ming kow spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Yong Ming Kow spotlight 

 
 

 Hybrid Vigor    </strong>
     Doctoral student Yong Ming Kow gave a presentation at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 2008 about his research into the community of modders for the World of Warcraft.</strong> 
		 
    In the early years of software development, products were internally driven – companies internal marketing, research and development and user experience team drove the user interfaces and functionalities of the product’s release. 
 Today open application programming interface’s (API) such as those for Google Maps and the Apple iPhone, have given rise to communities of users who modify a piece of hardware or software or anything else for that matter, to perform a function not originally conceived or intended by the designer 
 These users, or modders as they are called in gaming, can create functionality that is much more suited to their own needs and a lot faster than the manufacturer can, and as second year doctoral student Yong Ming Kow is discovering, modders will have an important impact on the future of software development.  
   Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.  
 “In a way, modding culture is important to the future of software and product development,” Kow said. “The main stream development paradigm is still internally driven. Even though these design leaders would hold periodic surveys with users, you still lose time and data going back and forth. But imagine what will happen when you open up some of these components to modding communities, and they are able to modify the product how and when they need to?” 
 Kow and informatics professor Bonnie Nardi are trying to understand, what are these communities like and how can their potential be unleashed. 
 To that end Kow and Nardi have spent the past two years observing and interviewing modders in the United States and China who play World of Warcraft, a massively multiplayer online role-playing game. These user created mods have systematically been incorporated into the game by its developer – Blizzard. 
 “Modding communities contribute to creativity because they modify the product to keep it relevant to users. They are players too, and almost all of them do it free of charge,” Kow said. “Also modding communities are virtual communities. As a result, studying modders is like positioning our fieldwork at the intersection of the real and virtual.”  
 Born in Singapore to a Chinese speaking family, Kow was sensitive to the differences of both the American and Chinese cultures and his backgrounds channeled him into his research topic. The work has attracted attention in China and Kow recently gave a speech about the work at China’s Institute of Psychology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. 
 “The Chinese Academy of Sciences was also working on cross-cultural issues and was interested in how we made the comparison and what were our findings. It was timely as we had tested some of the ideas we had put forth and many of our claims got verified,” Kow said. “Our data seemed to show that the Chinese were less creative, which attracted many challenging questions from the audience. That unleashed an open discussion around cultural-historical conditions of China that helped position our research questions.”  
  HYBRID VIGOR</strong> 
 The ability to conduct research in an environment that is open to the blending of disciplines was one of the major reasons Kow chose the Bren School to pursue his doctoral study. 
 “The Bren School promotes a socio-technological mixture in its curriculum and it is important to tomorrow’s think tanks. There are many out there who still think that society is one thing and technology is another,” Kow said. “Many of us in the Bren School believe that technology is integrated into our social life and you can find many forward thinking researchers here. “ 
 Kow had been working at Central Labs in Minneapolis and Singapore before deciding to pursue a Ph.D.  
 “I had always been a thinking type and I enjoyed exploring new ideas,” Kow said. “When I made up my mind on a Ph.D., I was certain I wanted to pursue Anthropology and Activity Theory, in the context of Information Society. I searched for a long time but it appeared only Bonnie Nardi was doing all of these.” 
 In addition to his research work and studies, for the past three quarters Kow has been a reader, in charge of grading homework, papers, and examinations and holding office hours for various classes.  
 “I enjoyed the opportunity to talk with students, though I can get a bit turned off by students who came to me only to bargain for grades,” Kow said with a smile.  
 Kow lives in Palo Verde, an on campus graduate and family community, with his wife Lee Peng who works at a local auditing company. While he tries his best to maintain a work life balance, it can be difficult when your conducting research in a different timezone. 
 “My wife has been extremely supportive and I tried not to work after 6 p.m. and on weekends but that was impossible for a couple of reasons, there were reader duties, I had to engage with members of the Chinese modding communities at night, and I am playing World of Warcraft in the United States, China, and Taiwan,” Kow said. “On some weekends, however, my wife and I spend time visiting the zoo, Disneyland and the local shopping mall.” 
 Graduation is still a few years away and Kow is still not sure whether he wants to stay in academia or pursue a career in the corporate world.  
 “I would like to explore a role that allows me to investigate first hand the technological world we are living in,” Kow said. “I believe in teams above organizations.” 
  - Eric Kowalik   


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 