 Advanced To Candidacy<body>   
  
   

     
      
       
        
           Research 
        

        
           Projects 
        
        
        
           News 
        

        
           Notes 
        

        
           CV 
        
       
      
        

       
      
         
             /
          
             News  / Advanced To Candidacy
          
         
                 

     


    
    Advanced To Candidacy 


  
   
    Date: 11 Dec 2014
   
  
   I am happy to report that I have passed the Advancement to Candidacy exam, the second milestone towards my PhD. Still a long way to go, but there is now one less thing to worry about! Also it seems, that now I get to call my self a Ph.D. Candidate at UC Irvine. 

 The Advancement to Candidacy exam is the second milestone for a Ph.D. student in the Software Engineering Program at UC Irvine. It requires the student to write a journal length/style research paper pertaining to an area of software engineering. This paper is then submitted to a review panel of three experienced software engineering researchers who provide detailed feedback on the paper and research. The student is then required to turn in a revised version of this paper to the reviewing committee who then either accept or reject the revised paper. Upon acceptance, the student is allowed to present his/her research in an oral defense to a committee of five experienced software engineering researchers many of whom are faculty members at UCI. 
 
 

 
	  Tags: 
	
		 PhD 
		
			   
		
	
		 exam 
		
			   
		
	
		 Software 
		
			   
		
	
		 Engineering 
		
	
 
 

 
   Related Posts 
     07 Oct 2015  »  Spider SENSE: Software-Engineering, Networked, System Evaluation  
    
        07 Oct 2015  »  Revealing Runtime Features and Constituent Behaviors within Software  
    
        01 Oct 2015  »  Attended VISSOFT 2015  
    
    

       
       
         home  •
          bitbucket .com  •
         Linked in   •
         Instagram  •
         medium  •
         stack overflow   •
          github .com   •
          arch ives 
        •
        Background:  Mt. Ranier , © Vijay Krishna Palepu, 2015
        
       
         
   
   
  
</body> 