 Welcome to IWIA'98<body> 
 
  
International Workshop on Innovative Architecture for Future  
     Generation High-Performance Processors and Systems
  
 


	Date: Oct. 26-28, 1998  
	Place: Maui, Hawaii  
	Location:   Maui High Performance Computing Center     

     Program and Organizing Committee    
    
	   
	Prof. Dennis Gannon, Indiana University   
	Prof. Alex Nicolau, Univ. of California-Irvine  
	Prof. Brian Smith, Univ. of New Mexico/MHPCC 
	Dr. Marc Snir, T.J. Watson Research Cntr, IBM 
	Prof. Guri Sohi, Univ. of Wisconsin  
	Prof. Mateo Valero, Univ. Polithecnica de Catalunya       

      
	   
	Prof. Alex Veidenbaum, UofI at Chicago 
	Prof. Kyle Gallivan, Florida State University  
	Prof. S. Tomita, Kyoto University  
	Prof. M. Kitzuregawa, Tokyo University  
	Prof. Y. Muraoka, Waseda University 
	Prof. K. Joe, Wakayama University      
    
    
  Workshop description       Submission        Participants        Local Arrangements      Preliminary Program   
    

         Description       
     This invited workshop aims to bring together researchers and designers
from academia and industry to discuss directions in the development
of high-performance, parallel, distributed, and multimedia processors and
systems.  The workshop invitees are computer architects and compiler,
operating system, and application experts. The main goal of the workshop
is to discuss future trends in the development of architecture and
software systems and to explore the assumptions made by the architects  
about software systems and by software writers about architecture.
The increased complexity in each of these areas calls for increased
interaction with researchers from all of the other disciplines to accurately
assess the potential directions and future trends in architecture and systems.

  

The main themes of the workshop are application requirements and
characteristics, compiler/architecture interaction and codesign, and software-
and technology-driven and constrained new architectures. Both numerical
and non-numerical applications as well as database and data mining applications
are of interest.  Also of interest are characteristics of component-based
as well as Web- and Java-based applications.
Trends in processor design, memory development, VLSI technology and CAD tools
and their effect on processor and system design will be discussed as well as
the effect of system and application software.  In all cases a longer-term view
and assessment of the future is of most interest.

  

The workshop topics include but are not limited to:
   Systems On a Chip (SOC)     Memory technology and system organization     Single-chip multiprocessors, multi-chip servers and large-scale multiprocessors     PC-based parallel computing     Java-based computing     Application development trends and requirements 
   Compiler-architecture co-design    High-speed communication/interconnect technology    Modeling, benchmarks, and performance evaluation 
   CAD tools and special-purpose systems
  
The workshop will consist of sessions combining individual presentations 
with discussion.  Presentations will be limited to 15 min to provide sufficient
time for discussion.  An ideal presentation will concentrate on trends and future
directions rather than recently obtained results.  Speculation is encouraged.
   Workshop participation is capped at 55 invitees. RSVP by August 25th, 1998
if you plan to attend.  
            
    Submission and Publication    
 
  
   An extended abstract, up to 3 pages, should be submitted by 9/15/98.
   Submissions should electronic and in postscript form whenever possible.
   Papers will be refereed on the basis of the extended abstract and
   accepted for either regular or short presentation.
 
Full papers will be printed by IEEE Computer Society Press after the meeting.
The following set of LaTex    macros   should be used
in preparing the paper.
Additional publication instructions will be made available at a later date.  
         Participants       
       USA    
    
	   
	Dr. A. Bic (Intel)
	Prof. G. Bilardi (Padova)  
	Prof. R. Bramley (Indiana)  
	Dr. G. Campbell (Compaq)  
	Prof. E. Davidson (Michigan)  
	Dr. S. Hung     (Michigan)  
	Prof. K. Gallivan (Florida State)  
	Prof. D. Gannon   (Indiana)  
	Dr. B. Gropp    (Argonne)  
	Dr. B. Horst    (Compaq)       
        
	   
	Prof. 	C. Johnson (Utah)  
	Prof. A. Nicolau   (UC Irvine)  
	Prof. M. Norman    (Illinois)  
	Dr. D. Pensak (DuPont)  
	Prof. C. Polychronopoulos (Illinois)  
	Prof. J. Smith     (Wisconsin)  
	Prof. B. Smith     (New Mexico)  
	Prof. G. Sohi      (Wisconsin)  
        Dr. M. Snir (IBM)  
	Prof. A. Veidenbaum (UC Irvine)  
	Dr. H. Wasserman (Los Alamos)       
 
         Japan    
    
	   
	Dr. Akiyama     (RWC)  
	Prof. Amamiya   (Kyushu-U)  
	Prof. Baba      (Utsunomiya-U)  
	Prof. Fukuda    (Nara)  
	Prof. Hiraki    (U-Tokyo)  
	Ido-san         (NKK)  
	Dr. Inagami     (Hitachi)  
	Prof. Joe       (Wakayama-U)  
	Dr. Kanou       (NEC)  
	Prof. Kasahara  (Waseda-U)  
	Dr. Kimura      (Fujitsu)  
	Prof. Kitsuregawa (U-Tokyo)  
	Prof. Kohata    (Okayama-Science-U)   
               
        
	   
	Dr. Kudo        (RWCP)  
	Prof. Kunieda   (Wakayama-U)  
	Prof. Matsuoka  (TIT)  
	Prof. Mori      (Kyoto-U)  
	Prof. Muraoka   (Waseda-U)  
	Prof. Nakajima  (Toyohashi-U)  
	Prof. Nakajo    (Kobe-U)  
	Prof. Nishikawa (Tsukuba-U)  
	Dr. Ootsu       (Utsunomiya-U)  
	Dr. Sato        (Toshiba)  
	Prof. Tomita    (Kyoto-U)  
	Prof. Yuasa     (Kyoto-U)   
               
 
           Travel and Local Arrangements      
  
There are some non-stop flights from the mainland to Maui  Kahului airport and
even more flights to Honolulu.  In the latter case one has to catch a very short
commuter flight from Honolulu to Maui.    
See maps and directions below for
airport, Prince hotel, and MHPCC locations.
   
Registration fee: US$100.00 to cover some of the local expenses.
   
Car rental is recommended to drive to/from the airport, MHPCC meeting room,
and the hotel.  Car pooling will also be possible.
   
The workshop hotel is the   Maui Prince   where we have a special rate contract of $125/night. 
Reservations have to be made by 9/24 and require a 2 night deposit (can be
cancelled without penalty until 10/17).
Phone number for reservations is   (800)-321-6248  .
 
It is possible to stay a few extra days at the same rate before and after the
conference.
 
A number of condominiums (1 to 3 bedroom) will be available for those
preferring apartment living. Their price is similar.
   
  Maps and directions
  to Maui HPCC, Maui Prince, and condominiums.
   
A welcome reception is planned for the evening of 10/25/98.
     
Send questions/mail about IWIA to    Alex Veidenbaum   
 </body> 