 Security and Privacy in Genomics<body>

 

	 
		 S.P.I.G. 
		 Security and Privacy in Genomics 
	 

	
	
	 
	
		 Site Pages 
	
		 
			   Home  
			  Code  
              Publications  		  
	

		       
	
	
	 

	 
	
     Highligts 
      Recent advances in DNA sequencing technologies have put ubiquitous availability of fully sequenced human genomes within reach. It is no longer hard to imagine the day when everyone will have the means to obtain and store one's own DNA sequence. Widespread and affordable availability of fully sequenced genomes immediately opens up important opportunities in a number of health-related fields. In particular, common genomic applications and tests performed in vitro today will soon be conducted computationally, using digitized genomes. New applications will be developed as genome-enabled medicine becomes increasingly preventive and personalized. However, this progress also prompts significant privacy challenges associated with potential loss, theft, or misuse of genomic data.  
     We begin to address genomic privacy by focusing on a number of important applications: Paternity Tests, Ancestry Testing, Personalized Medicine, and Genetic Compatibility Tests. We investigate real-world practicality and usability of (as well as interest in) some of proposed privacy-preserving genomic tests. 
     Motivated by both medical and social applications, we aim to test viability of privacy-agile computational genomic tests in a portable and pervasive setting of modern smartphones. We also design a personal genomic toolkit (called GenoDroid) and implement it on the Android platform. 
     FatherFinder – an Android app that, on input of two simulated genomes, compute the paternal lineage between the two without revealing any other information about either parties DNA, is available from  Google Play .
     
    
    
      
      People 
       Emiliano De Cristofaro , Computer Science Dept., University College London 
          Sky Faber , Computer Science Dept., UC Irvine 
          Paolo Gasti , Computer Science Dept., New York Institute of Technology 
          Gene Tsudik , Computer Science Dept., UC Irvine 
      Collaborators 
       Pierre Baldi , Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics., UC Irvine 
          Roberta Baronio , Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics., UC Irvine 
      
	
	 
		Webmaster  S. Faber 
	 


 
</body> 