 Rescue Dissemination Project<body>
 
   
         
           
            
         
 

 
 
        Home  
          People  
          Research 
               Introduction  
                Dissemination Scenarios  
                Customization Needs  
                Delivery Infrastructure  
              
          Results and Artifacts   
          Publications  
          Workshops  
          Classes  
          Related Links  
        
        
        
       
    Results of the project and artifacts  
     Expected research outcomes of this work include:  
      
         a methodology for determining customization needs and for risk communications in adverse situations that incorporates societal implications of the communication  
       
       systems and strategies for customization notification that supports accurate and rapid targeting of the most vulnerable populations  
        techniques for flash dissemination in crisis contexts that enables delivery of urgent communications to large number of users in a very short period of time over unreliable networks  
       
         techniques to support efficient use of scarce wireless resources to reach mobile recipients reachable over wireless devices.     
       
      Our efforts are expected to culminate in two artifacts:  
      
         a scalable rapid real-time alert system ( School Crisis Alert System )  
       
       a customized risk communications system capable of reaching diverse populations based on context and recipient characteristics. ( Hurricane Portal )  
        School Crisis Alert System 
     The School Crisis Alert System is one of the artifacts that is being developed in the
    Rescue Dissemination Project. The goal of this artifact is to create an automated system to disseminate
    information to schools and other organization in case of crisis and disasters. The dissemination will be
    done by exploiting the organization's emergency plans by sending, for each event, the right information to
    the person that, according to the emergency plan, should received it. The existing emergency's plans are
    so improved by having updated, relevant and customized information easily available to the people who
    need them.
       School Crisis Alert Website  
     
       Hurricane Portal 
     The RESCUE Hurricane Portal provides a means by which emergency response
      organizations and the general public can capture, process, and track the
      evolution of crises in real-time during hurricanes. The portal provides
      three major benefits. The portal provides simulation results for wind
      damage to buildings as well as emergency shelter needs prior to or
      immediately following landfall of the hurricane, which can be used for
      planning purposes and resource allocation. The portal also serves as a
      clearinghouse for eyewitness damage reports via a damage survey, which
      can be used to validate the simulated results. Finally, the portal
      provides a suite of sophisticated search, retrieval, and analysis tools
    for utilizing web content to provide situational awareness.  
     Research areas related to the hurricane portal include: 
      Entity &amp; Event Extraction from text and other multimodal data to 
        build situational awareness 
       Mechanisms to model reliability and trust in information  
        Doman specific ontologies to classify and reason about disasters 
       Models and simulations for loss estimation and disaster impact 
        analysis 
       Geo-spatial analysis models for disaster planning and monitoring 
       
 
 
</body> 