 SPIN Flyer<body> 
 

 

 University of California at Irvine

  Irvine Research Unit in Software 
(IRUS)  is proud to sponsor the 

 

   Software Process 
Improvement Network (SPIN)  


 A World of CMMs: Can They be Integrated? 

 


  * Friday, April 24, 1998 *  

9:00 a.m. - 12:00 noon 
McDonnell Douglas Auditorium 
University of California, Irvine  

There is a $15.00 charge for non-sponsors.  
Checks should be made payable to  UC Regents</strong>.

  

 No reservations required.      

  

  Featured Speaker: Rick Hefner, Manager of Process 
Technology, 
 TRW ,
 rick.hefner@trw.com  </strong>
 

 

 Coordinator: </strong> Debra A. Brodbeck ,  UC Irvine  /  IRUS ,  brodbeck@ics.uci.edu 

  

A Capability Maturity Model (CMM) is a reference model of best practices for 
an engineering discipline. A project or organization can compare their 
practices against a CMM to measure how mature their processes are, to 
benchmark against competitors, and to identify improvement opportunities. 
The Software CMM (SW-CMM), and its five level scale, has become a de facto 
standard for assessing and improving software processes throughout the world.

  

The success of the SW-CMM was soon copied by other disciplines, and has led 
to a world of CMMs. There are currently over 30 different CMMs in use 
throughout industry, covering a variety of disciplines, and reflecting an 
assortment of structures and formats. This diversification is causing 
increasing difficulty for developers and customers in selecting and applying 
the right model(s).

  

This talk presents an overview of the major CMMs in use today, and the status 
of the DoD CMM integration effort. It will include comparisons of the:

           Capability Maturity Model for Software (SW-CMM)
  	Systems Engineering Capability Maturity Model (SE-CMM)
   	Integrated Product Development Capability Maturity Model (IPD-CMM)
   	System Security Engineering Capability Maturity Model (SSE-CMM)
   	Software Acquisition Capability Maturity Model (SA-CMM)
   	People Capability Maturity Model (P-CMM)
   

Relationships to non-CMM standards, such as ISO 9000/9001, DoD-STD-2167A, 
MIL-STD-498, ISO 12207, and IEEE P1220, will also be highlighted.

  

 Biography: </strong>
 Dr. Rick Hefner is an SEI-authorized CBA-IPI Lead Assessor, with over 20 
years of experience in software development and process improvement. He is 
a member of the DoD joint CMM Integration team and Co-Chair of the Assessment 
Team, and he teaches locally on the SW-CMM and related subjects. Dr. Hefner 
serves as the Manager of Process Technology for TRW, where his focus is on 
practical, low-cost methods for process assessment, process improvement, and 
training. 
  

 Directions  to meeting are available.

  


Next Meeting:   

  
Date: Friday, May 29, 1998 
Topic:  
A Systematic Approach to Continuous Process Improvement: An Introduction to the Theory of Constraints Thinking Process  
Speaker: David T. Novick, The Boeing Company 
Coordinator: George Huling, 
 Disciplined Software Consulting 
 

 

The Irvine Research Unit in Software wishes to thank its 
 corporate sponsors :
  

Sustaining:
  
    The Boeing Company * Boeing North American, Inc. *
    Northrop Grumman Corporation   
    Raytheon Company * Sun Microsystems Laboratories * TRW
 
 
Supporting:
  
    Beckman Instruments * Continuus Software Corporation *
    FileNet Corporation * Lockheed Martin  
    Logicon Ultrasystems Space &amp; Engineering
    Operations * Printronix, Inc. 
 
 

For further information on 
 SPIN  or 
 IRUS,    contact  Debra Brodbeck 
at (949) 824-2260, 
 brodbeck@ics.uci.edu 
 

        
  
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science  
University of California, Irvine  CA 92697-3425   
</body> 