 TechCon<body>
  Compiler-in-the-Loop, ADL-driven Early Architectural Exploration
 
  
   

   

  
  Aviral Shrivastava  ,
  Nikil Dutt  ,
  Alex Nicolau , and
  Eugene Earlie ,
 

   TECHCON 2005:   Semiconductor Research Corporation 

   Abstract:  
Processor architects today critically need software tools that
accurately track architectural changes made during exploration,
and provide fast and quantitative feedback for each
design point. Indeed, Design Space Exploration (DSE) without
the compiler-in-the-loop (CIL) can be meaningless. To
effectively explore the processor-memory-coprocessor design
space, a system architect critically needs a compiler that can
exploit the advantages of micro architectural features, hide
memory latency and effectively use the coprocessor. This
paper presents a CIL framework for processor architecture
DSE. The framework is developed around EXPRESSION,
an Architecture Description Language (ADL) that captures
the functionality and structure of the processor at a high
level. A software toolkit comprising an optimizing compiler,
an instruction-set simulator and a cycle-accurate simulator
are parameterized from the ADL, allowing for early estimation
of performance, power and code size. System designers
can modify the ADL to reflect architectural changes;
for each change, the applications are re-evaluated using the
architecture-sensitive compiler and the cycle-accurate simulator
and feedback on performance as well as power is provided.
Furthermore, the ADL can be used as a golden reference
model for the ensuing phases of design and analysis.
This paper demonstrates the need and usefulness of CIL
DSE methodology for the exploration of register bypasses in
the Intel XScale architecture.
  

      
      Center For Embedded Computer Systems,  
      Department of Information and Computer Science, 
      University of California, Irvine.
       
    
       
      Strategic CAD Labs, 
      Intel Corporation,  
      Hudson, Massachussets.
       
       </body> 