 Beginning of the Quarter General Meeting – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         
         
             

                            
                 Beginning of the Quarter General Meeting 
                          
                                
                                         

            
               WICS Meeting    by admin 

            
                        on 01/17/2013 

                                
                                
                                
		   
				   
			    
				   
			    
				   
			     
				   
			    

 The first Tuesday of our Winter Quarter, WICS hosted a general meeting for students to reunite and start talking about preparing for the quarter! Over 30 students (and two friendly male ICS students) came and played games, drank hot chocolate, ate snacks, and shared class schedules to get organized for the new year! 
 Our meeting began with announcements about our plans for Winter quarter: a Resume workshop, Letters of Recommendation Workshop, a web development workshop on jquery, lunches with industry professionals, and the initiation of our Hacker Toy Workshop outreach to girls and children living in impoverished areas. We announced more details for our upcoming conference, init(together): Southern California Women in Computing Conference, on April 14th. 
 Our members our already enthusiastic this year: over a dozen volunteered for our Hacker Toy Workshop Program and two more have joined our committee! 
   Share this:        Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)        
 
	  Related  
 
                                  

                             
         
     

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 

	</body> 