 Grace Hopper Celebration 2013 – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         
         
             

                            
                 Grace Hopper Celebration 2013 
                          
                                
                                         

            
               News    by admin 

            
                        on 10/06/2013 

                                
                                
                                 From Oct. 1 to Oct 5, four of WICS’s board members who were sponsored by the Donald Bren School of ICS and Calit2, attended the annual Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing in Minneapolis, Minnesota. There were many workshops that ranged from important skills to know in the professional field to talking about video games and what companies are doing to improve them. The whole event was truly inspirational as there were more than 4600 attendees who all became supportive to each other in the technological field. 
 Not only did the members get to learn more about women in technology, they also got a chance to meet representatives of all the big technology related companies such as Microsoft, Google, Apple, Facebook, and many more at the career fair which was open every day during the celebration days. Resumes were given out and company swag was received. WICS will be  giving out</strong> these swag items (shirts, stickers, car chargers, toys, bags, etc.)  during the course of the year</strong> at our events! Many companies were also enthusiastic about coming to UC Irvine to present speeches and talk to the students more about women in the technology field as well as their company. 
 One of the members won “The Sims” limited addition game from the EA booth as well as a Kindle Fire from Amazon by entering a raffle after answering some engineering questions! 
                                                                                                                    « prev        1     2     3     4        next »    (16 Photos)  
 WICS is hoping to sponsor more members to go to the celebration next year, which will be located at Phoenix, Arizona. Join the committee for a higher chance to attend and if you want to learn more, check out this years  GHC website  and more pictures posted on  Facebook . 
   Share this:        Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)        
 
	  Related  
 
                                  

                             
         
     

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 
</body> 