 In the News – Page 2 – Center for Computer Games &amp; Virtual Worlds 
 
	 
		 Skip to content 

		 
				 
					
											  Center for Computer Games &amp; Virtual Worlds  
											 Bren School of ICS | UC Irvine 
									 

							 

					 

	 
		 Category: In the News 			  Studying Computer Games Is No Waste  	 
		  Jim White  |  Feb   01 ,  2011  |  Comments 1  
 “Most people have to work for a living; others get to play video games.” That is what United States Senator Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-OK) said about research at UC Irvine’s Center for Computer Games and Virtual Worlds in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Science. 
 The Center for Computer Games and Virtual Worlds is truly interdisciplinary, as befits a research area having broad social impact, with faculty not just from the fields of informatics and computer science but also humanities, law, education, art and anthropology. So it would be fair to say they do a whole lot more than just play video games there. 
 But last December, Coburn published “Wastebook 2010: A Guide to Some of the Most Wasteful Government Spending of 2010” through his taxpayer-funded senatorial office.  In it, he ranked as No. 6 (out of 100 government-funded projects) work by UCI Professor Bonnie Nardi, Senior Research Scientist Walt Scacchi and 21 other researchers, for which they received a three-year, $3 million grant from the National Science Foundation in 2008. 
   Continue reading  “Studying Computer Games Is No Waste”   
	 

	    Author    venita     Posted on   February 15, 2011September 27, 2012    Categories   In the News  			  OC Weekly : game on  	 
		  
 UC Irvine’s New Computer-Games Major Gets Its Game On 
 The school is banking big on computer games as an emerging discipline 
 By  MICHELLE WOO  Thursday, Dec 9 2010 
   
 
 Open House Night remains a standard of American higher education, an opportunity for colleges and universities to convince prospective students and skeptical parents why their institutions are the best, why the parents should spend the next four to five years scrounging to pay tens of thousands of dollars in tuition, why the student must enroll in that program and ignore the competition. Administrators and professors pull out all the proverbial stops to impress recruits, from spending thousands on glossy packets to name-dropping prominent alumni to offering tours of grandiose campus architecture and boasting about the assured millions in salary that will inevitably come after graduation. 
 But for  UC Irvine ’s computer-game-science major, the pitch is simple: computer screens. With computer games loaded onto them. There they are—take them. 
   Continue reading  “OC Weekly : game on”    
	 

	    Author    venita     Posted on   January 11, 2011September 27, 2012    Categories   In the News  			  Navarro, Van der Hoek win Premier Award for SimSE  	 
		    Project scientist  Emily Navarro</strong> and Associate Dean  André van der Hoek</strong> have been recognized with the 2009 Premier Award for SimSE, a game-based educational software engineering simulation environment that allows students to practice “virtual” software engineering processes in a graphical, interactive and fun setting. 
 SimSE’s direct, graphical feedback enables students to learn the complex cause and effect relationships underlying software engineering processes. During the game, the student takes on the role of the project manager and directs engineers to perform typical process tasks. 
 SimSE helps bridge the gap between the conceptual knowledge about software engineering that is presented in lecture but that      often times is not fully explored or practiced in assignments or projects. 
   Continue reading  “Navarro, Van der Hoek win Premier Award for SimSE”   
	 

	    Author    admin     Posted on   November 30, 2009November 30, 2009    Categories   In the News    Tags   emily navarro ,  premier award ,  simse ,  van der hoek  			  From the New York Times  	 
		  New York Times, November 30, 2009  
 UCI mentioned: 
This fall, the University of California, Irvine is set to begin a four 
year undergraduate program in “game science.” 
	 

	    Author    admin     Posted on   November 30, 2009November 30, 2009    Categories   In the News    Tags   latimes ,  New York Times ,  nyt  			  The California Report  	 
		 Public Radio’s The California Report on Computer Game Science.  Click here for MP3.  
	 

	    Author    admin     Posted on   November 30, 2009November 30, 2009    Categories   In the News  			  LA Times: UC Irvine takes video games to the next level  	 
		   
   By Tony Barboza,     November 30, 2009   
 UC Irvine has long sought to be known for preeminence in fields such as engineering, medicine and business. But now the university is embracing a new discipline: video games. 
 Once ridiculed within university halls as merely a nerdy pastime, computer games are being promoted to a full-fledged academic program at the Irvine campus, a medium as ripe for study as the formats before it: film, radio and television. 
 This fall UC Irvine established the  Center for Computer Games &amp; Virtual Worlds , and construction is underway on a 4,000-square-foot, 20-room “Cyber-Interaction Observatory” for faculty research. Plans call for floor-to-ceiling projection screens, 3-D stereoscopic displays and gesture-based interfaces. 
 If all goes according to plan, next fall UC Irvine will debut a four-year undergraduate program allowing students to declare “game science” as their major — an idea that drew snickers when a few professors first proposed it a decade ago. 
 “There are people who will say we’re pandering to a trend,” said Dan Frost, an informatics lecturer who teaches a popular computer game development course. “But this really is intellectually justified. Universities are always doing things that seem crazy at first.” 
 It’s a fitting development for a campus where some students are so gaga for gaming that they spend sleepless nights writing code for their homespun games and like to unwind with pizza-fueled Street Fighter tournaments and Rock Band contests.  Continue reading  “LA Times: UC Irvine takes video games to the next level”   
	 

	    Author    admin     Posted on   November 30, 2009November 30, 2009    Categories   In the News    Tags   LA Times ,  latimes  			  Lopes speaks at Intel CTO  keynote address  	 
		    Cristina Lopes, Associate Professor of Informatics participated as a guest speaker in the keynote address at SuperComputing ’09 in Portland Oregon.  The Keynote was delivered by Justin Rattner, CTO of Intel.  Lopes was a guest at Rattner’s keynote, in her role as one of the main architects of OpenSim. 
 Justin Rattner’s opening keynote address at SuperComputing’09 message addressed how the super-computing industry has stagnated, and the only thing that will save it from collapse is a drastic change on what people think of as “super-computing.” Other guests were Aaron Duffy, a biology researcher at Utah State University, and Shenlei Winkler, CEO of the Fashion Design Institute. 
 Lopes’ research is related to languages and communication systems. The ultimate goal of her research is to deepen the knowledge about communication, in particular in systems that involve humans and machines. With this utopic goal in mind, she has done work in a variety of fields such as programming languages, security and applications of audio signal processing. 
	 

	    Author    admin     Posted on   November 23, 2009November 23, 2009    Categories   In the News  			  UCI students could soon major in video games  	 
		 The Orange County Register’s Ian Hamilton on the new Center for Computer Games and Virtual Worlds: 
   IRVINE Freshmen at UC Irvine could be among the first graduates to earn a degree in computer game science as the university expands its research into gaming and virtual worlds. 
 A new Center for Computer Games and Virtual Worlds established this quarter at UCI is expected to consolidate and expand the research done in those fields. UCI isn’t the first school to offer a degree program in computer gaming, but university officials are keen on turning informal relationships faculty have with video game development companies into formal ones that can lead to internships, scholarships and exclusive research and development agreements. One of the most popular games in the world, World of Warcraft, is made by Irvine-based Blizzard Entertainment and a number of students from UCI already work there, said Information and Computer Sciences associate dean Magda El Zarki.  
  Click here for the full story . 
	 

	    Author    admin     Posted on   September 12, 2009    Categories   In the News    Tags   oc register  			  Virtual Worlds, Virtual Property  	 
		 Dan Burke, Professor of Law at UC Irvine, gave a talk on Virtual Worlds, Virtual Property. 
  http://cast.nacs.uci.edu/tltc/LawSchool/LawSchoolVideo.html  
	 

	    Author    staff     Posted on   July 27, 2009September 27, 2012    Categories   In the News  			 Posts navigation 
		  Previous page 
  Page  1 
  Page  2  
	 


	 Blogroll 
	   ArtIsAllWeHave  
  Itofisher  
  Metaverse Ink Blog  
  Pomo2k  
  UCI VGDC  
  Virtual Politik  

	  Archives 		   November 2012  
	  October 2012  
	  September 2012  
	  May 2012  
	  April 2011  
	  February 2011  
	  January 2011  
	  August 2010  
	  April 2010  
	  November 2009  
	  September 2009  
	  July 2009  
		  

		 
								  Center for Computer Games &amp; Virtual Worlds  
				 Proudly powered by WordPress 
			 
		 
 

</body> 