 Tangencies: Apollonian Circles<body>
 
 
   
 
   Tangencies : Apollonian Circles 
 
Given any three circles, one can construct up to eight circles tangent to 
all three.  Apollonius of Perga first showed how to do this with compass 
and straightedge.

 If the initial three circles are mutually tangent, there are only two 
Apollonian circles.  The poem "The Kiss Precise" by Frederick Soddy 
describes the formula for the tangent's radii, but there is also a 
simple compass and straightedge construction:

  Form a triangle connecting the three circle centers (black), 
and drop a perpendicular line from each center to the opposite triangle 
edge (blue).  This line cuts its circle at two points; draw a line from 
each cut point to the point of tangency of the other two circles (green).  
These green lines cut their circles in two more points, which are the 
points of tangency of the Apollonian circles.  Once these three points on 
each Apollonian circle are known, the circles themselves are easily 
constructed.

    

 

 The correctness of this construction can be proven by
 inversion  (possibly surprising, since 
inversion doesn't preserve centers of circles, and this construction 
definitely uses the centers): let the three initial circles be A, B, and C, 
and let D be a circle centered at the point where A and B are tangent, such 
that C and D cross at right angles. Then inverting through D produces a 
figure in which A and B have been transmuted to parallel lines a and 
b(specifically, the lines through the pairs of points where these circles 
are crossed by D). The blue perpendicular we constructed is a third 
parallel line halfway between a and b; all pairs of circles that touch each 
other and a and b have their point of mutual tangency on this
 bisector .  In particular, the circles that are 
tangent to a, b, and C touch C at the two crossing points with this line. 
To find the points of tangency for A, B, and C, we need only apply the 
inversion again to these crossing points. Since C is perpendicular to D, it 
is preserved by the inversion, but its inside and outside arcs are swapped. 
The green radial lines are also preserved by the inversion, and help us 
find the point on the inside arc corresponding to the crossing point on the 
outside arc and vice versa.

  The newly constructed circles are part of several more triples of tangent 
circles, so one can iterate this process, producing more and more tangent 
circles.  The result of this iteration is called the  Apollonian 
gasket .

  Note also that the lines of the construction form three triples that meet 
in common points. The point where the blue lines meet is just the 
orthocenter of the triangle, but
 what are the two green points? 

     
Animation created by  Cinderella . 
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Last update: . 
 </body> 