 News     

       

           

           

           

       

               Explore  
    Chair’s Welcome   
	   Seminar Series   
	   Distinguished Lecture Series   
	   Contact Us   
  
   Faculty   
   Research  
    Research Areas   
	   Research Centers   
  
   Graduate Degrees  
    Computer Science Programs   
	   Current Graduate Students   
  
   Undergraduate Degrees   
      Tsudik’s biometrics security research paper featured in February issue of CACM   
 January 30, 2017    Communications of the ACM  ( CACM ), the monthly flagship publication of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), is publishing an abridged version of a research paper co-authored by Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Gene Tsudik, titled  “Authentication Using Pulse-Response Biometrics,” in the Research Highlights section of its February 2017  issue . Tsudik’s paper originally appeared at the 2014 Network and Distributed System Security ( NDSS ) Symposium. According to the paper’s abstract, the paper proposes a new biometric based on the human body’s response to an electric square pulse signal, called pulse-response, and how it can be used to enhance security.  [Read more…]  
   OC Register: ICS alumnus, professional poker player Jason Les competing against a bot for $200K   
 January 13, 2017   Professional poker player  Jason Les</strong> will join three other players in a head-to-head competition against a poker-playing bot whose artificial intelligence was engineered by a computer science team at Carnegie Mellon University. 
  Read the full story at the  OC Register .  
   Master of Computer Science Program Ranks 36th nationally by TFE Times   
 January 12, 2017    UC Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences was ranked as of the top 40 Master of Computer Science programs in the United States by  The Financial Engineer ( TFE ) Times . Out of 242 colleges, UC Irvine was ranked 36 th  for its master’s in computer science, beating schools such as UC Santa Barbara and UC Davis. 
  TFE Times , which considers itself one of the most comprehensive rankings systems for graduate programs in the U.S., uses GRE/GMAT scores, undergraduate GPA, acceptance rates and employment data as its ranking components. A score for each program is the weighted average of each of the components respective score, where the weights sum to 100%. The final scores are normalized and are not rounded. 
   Cardiovascular Business: “NIH provides researchers $8.6 million to map heart’s anatomy” (Fowlkes mentioned)   
 January 5, 2017   Researchers from seven institutions received an $8.6 million grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to conduct research on the anatomy and function of the nerves that control the heart. 
 Kalyanam Shivkumar, MD, PhD, of the University of California, Los Angeles, will serve as the lead researcher. The title of the project is “Comprehensive Structural and Functional Mapping of the Mammalian Cardiac Nervous System.” 
 The principal investigators from the other schools are Viviana Gradinaru, PhD (California Institute of Technology), Stephen Liberles, PhD (Harvard University),  Charless Fowlkes</strong>, PhD (University of California, Irvine), Irving Zucker, PhD (University of Nebraska Medical Center), Beth Habecker, PhD (Oregon Health and Science University) and David Paterson, DPhil, DSc (Oxford University). 
  Read the full story at  Cardiovascular Business .  
   Two ICS Ph.D. students receive 2017 UCI Public Impact Fellowships   
 December 16, 2016    Computer Science Ph.D. student  Nitin Agarwal</strong> and Informatics Ph.D. student  Kathryn Ringland</strong> were recently named 2017  Public Impact Fellows  by UC Irvine. The fellowships highlight and support doctoral students whose current research has the potential for substantial impact in the public sphere. 
 “This program was developed to support and highlight academically excellent graduate students whose research demonstrates the potential to significantly improve or enrich the lives of people in California and beyond,” said Frances Leslie, UC Irvine’s vice provost for graduate education. 
   [Read more…]  
   Cylance commits $50K to UCI’s Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems to support seminar series, Ph.D. recruitment   
 December 9, 2016    Irvine-based  Cylance Inc.  has provided a gift donation of $50,000 to Computer Science Professors  Alex Ihler</strong> and  Padhraic Smyth</strong> to support the activities of UC Irvine’s Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems ( CML ). The funds will be used to support the Center’s weekly  seminar  series, to bring distinguished speakers to campus and for recruitment of new Ph.D. students in machine learning. Founded in 2012, Cylance now has 750 employees to help develop cybersecurity software using machine learning and artificial intelligence techniques. Cylance is also a  corporate partner  of the UC Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. 
 The first distinguished speaker seminar on Jan. 27, 2017 will be by  Ruslan Salakhutdinov , a professor of computer science at CMU who was recently appointed director of artificial intelligence research at Apple. 
 “We are very grateful for this generous gift from Cylance, which will significantly enhance our ability to bring in leading researchers to speak at UCI and attract the brightest Ph.D. students to participate in our machine learning research program,” said Smyth. 
   UCI ranked 7th best university for coding in U.S. by HackerRank   
 December 9, 2016     HackerRank , a free coding practice website that allows developers to hone their coding skills by solving challenges, recently conducted an online competition that ranked UC Irvine 7th in the U.S. and 47th in the world for having the best university coders. More than 5,500 students from 126 schools worldwide participated in the University Rankings Competition, which set out to find which universities had the best coders around the world. The universities were ranked based on both number of participants in the competition and high scores; HackerRank’s engineering team then created a formula to rank each university. Check out the complete list of university rankings on the HackerRank  blog . 
   UCI team places first in regional ACM competition, advances to international finals in May   
 December 1, 2016   The oldest, largest and most prestigious programming contest in the world, otherwise known as the Association for Computing Machinery’s International Collegiate Programming Contest ( ACM ICPC ), will host three UC Irvine students at its 41st annual world finals in Rapid City, S.D. from May 20-25, 2017.  [Read more…]  
   Tech Times: “Hackers can steal your data by recording keystroke sounds over Skype” (Tsudik quoted)   
 November 4, 2016   Skype calls carry an unseen, but crystal-clear danger of leaking your passwords to hackers, say researchers at the University of California, Irvine and in Italy. 
 We have all been in the scenario where we Skype and our interlocutor types loudly on the keyboard, and it looks like this can be a serious security breach. 
 Gene Tsudik, professor of computer science at UCI, explains that he had this revelation more than a year ago while participating in a Skype conference. 
  Read the full story at  Tech Times .  
   San Diego Union-Tribune: “Waging war with no bombs or missiles” (Cunningham quoted)   
 November 1, 2016   “Cyberspace is the Wild West. There is no consensus over how nations should behave in using cyber weapons,” said  Bryan Cunningham</strong>, the former CIA officer who heads UC Irvine’s new Cybersecurity Policy and Research Institute. 
 “There’s no treaty that specifies what cyber activities rise to the level of armed aggression warranting a response. No one knows where the lines are, and that’s a dangerous situation. An adversary could miscalculate, taking an offensive cyber action thinking it’s below the threshold for response. But the victim nation sees it differently, triggering a much larger cyber or kinetic war than intended by the attacker.” 
  Read the full story at  The San Diego Union-Tribune .  
     1  
  2  
  3  
  4  
  Next Page »  
  
   			 

				 
						   
				 

				 
					  © 2017 UC Regents 
					     Feedback  
					     Privacy Policy  
					  

			 
	  </body> 