 Geometry in Action: Biology<body>

 
 
  
 
  
  Biology 
     Applications
of Voronoi Tesselations to Tumour Cell Diagnosis , Lynne Dunckley.
 
    Cancer
imaging .  The BC Cancer Research Ctr. uses minimum spanning trees to
describe the arrangements of nuclei in skin cells.
 
    
Case Studies in Biometry .  This book by N. Lange and others
mentions Voronoi diagrams as a method for detecting clusters
of disease incidence.
 
    Cell
aggregation and sphere packing .
 
    Cerebellar flat mapping .
Describes the use of circle-packing methods to map the convoluted
surface of the brain into a Euclidean or hyperbolic plane to help
visualize its functional areas.
See also  M.
Hurdal's web page  on the same research.
 
    Detecting actin fibers in cell images .
A. E. Johnson and
R. E. Valdes-Perez use minimum spanning trees for biomedical image analysis.
 
    Dirichlet
tessellation of bark beetle spatial attack points . J. Byers uses Voronoi diagrams to understand the spatial distribution of insects.
 
    Discrete
algorithms in biology and chemistry  (in German).  Molecular modeling
and related projects at the German Nat. Res. Ctr. for Inf. Tech.,
Inst. for Algorithms and Scientific Computing.
 
    Geometric
Morphometrics , the study of changing shape and its application to
evolutionary biology.
 
    Mesh generation
for bioelectric field problems ,
Oak Ridge Nat. Lab.
Discusses general mesh generation techniques as well as some
of the problems arising in this application
(such as anisotropy of some tissue types).
 
    Minimal
spanning tree analysis of fungal spore spatial patterns ,
C. L. Jones, G. T. Lonergan, and D. E. Mainwaring.
 
    Spherulites ,
a crystal growth formation closely related to Voronoi diagrams and
arising in modeling of geological materials, vitamins and red blood
cells, and thermoplastics.
 
    Straight skeleton implementation .
Petr Felkel and Stepán Obdrzálek apply this medial axis variant
to segmentation of images of placentas as a preliminary step in shape
reconstruction from contours.
 
    Voronoi
diagrams in biology , Zdravko Jeremic, Benoit College.
 
     
Part of
 Geometry in Action ,
a collection of applications of computational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 