 Fielding Dissertation: Frequently Asked Questions<body>
  [ Top ]  
  Frequently Asked Questions 
 
The most common questions I have been asked in the past about my on-line
Web publications have been about how (or  if ) something should be
referenced within other writings, whether or not they can be copied for
classroom use, etc.  Consider this to be my lazy way of answering
frequently asked questions about my dissertation before they become
too frequent.
 
 Copying or printing this work 
 
You may have noticed that I have included a copyright statement of "All
rights reserved" on all pages of this HTML edition.  The purpose of that is
to make it clear who owns the copyright (me) so that you don't go asking
the University of California or UMI (the microfiche archive company) for
the following permission.
 
 
I, Roy Thomas Fielding, hereby grant permission to You, whoever you may be,
to copy, print, or otherwise reproduce this dissertation for non-commercial
use (including classroom, research, government use, or anything covered by
the usual notion of "fair use") in its
 original PDF edition ,
 2-up PDF edition , or
 HTML edition ,
or excerpts thereof, provided that any such reproduction includes the
full reference to this work, as described below, either on the initial page
of the reproduction or by citation to a list of references within a
larger work.
 
 
If you would like to reproduce this work for commercial purposes, as in selling
it as a book or a significant part of a published compilation, then you
will have to ask for my permission separately.
 
 How to reference this work 
 
There is one authoritative reference to the library archives:
 
 
Fielding, Roy Thomas.
 Architectural Styles and the Design of Network-based Software Architectures .
Doctoral dissertation, University of California, Irvine, 2000.
 
 
You may need to make some style adjustments to that, depending on the
writing style being used for a given reference list, such as only listing
my initials instead of the full given names.
 
 
The content and section numbers of this HTML edition are identical to those
in the original.  However, if you wish to reference a page number, please see
the PDF editions for the correct page number.
 
 Anchors 
 
I have placed hypertext anchors around each of the subsection titles, with
names like  sec_2_3  or
 sec_4_1_4_2 , and around each
table, figure, and reference.  These are permanent names, so feel free to
use them as anchors for references within other documents.
 
 Errata 
 
Note that my dissertation is a permanently frozen document, so I will not
be changing the content in order to fix any errors I might have made in the
research.  If you notice a significant error, send me an e-mail to the
contact address on my  home page 
and I will add it to a list of errata below.
 
   Table 5-1  lists "representation"
     and "representation metadata" as separate data elements, which is incorrect
     because representation is defined to include both data and metadata (and
     sometimes metametadata).  The first heading should have been
     "representation data", or a single heading for representation and
     subheadings for data and metadata.
      [Reported by Ed Summers, 9 Jan 2010]  
     
 [ Top ] 
  
©  Roy Thomas Fielding , 2000.  All rights reserved.
  
 
   </body> 