 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  November 3,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         Anteaters unite in LA</strong>
              ICS, engineering and physical sciences alumni come together for the first collaborative sciences networking event 1,000 feet above downtown LA.
    
                  
  
“I only came because my girlfriend wanted to see the Skyslide,” said UC Irvine Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) alumnus Bhavin Patel, a former software engineer turned entrepreneur. His company,  RokitNow , is an IT service that helps businesses stay in touch with consumers via text messaging. As someone whose company motto is “Reach Out &amp; Keep In Touch,” it’s somewhat ironic that he hasn’t had the same experience with his alma mater.

  
Not an uncommon story, but fortunately, this disconnect is soon to change.

  
 A growing alumni network  
On Oct. 25, more than 200 UCI alumni gathered for the first collaborative sciences networking event between UCI’s Henry Samueli School of Engineering, ICS and the School of Physical Sciences.
 
  
Located 1,000 feet above downtown Los Angeles,  OUE SkySpace LA  was the perfect venue to promote this alumni partnership and the new Convergent Sciences Initiative. The iconic US Bank Tower hosts the new SkySpace and its infamous  Skyslide , which opened earlier this summer. Brave anteaters went zooming down the exterior of the building in a translucent slide from the 70th floor to the east observation terrace an entire floor below.
 
  
It was an exhilarating attraction not to be missed and, as many alumni mentioned, a main reason they braved LA traffic to attend the special event.
 
  
“We hope to have more high-profile venues like SkySpace moving forward to both draw talented alumni into more active roles with the schools and to honor their achievements,” said Kristen Huerth, associate director of external relations for the School of Engineering and ICS.
 
  
It seems to have worked. Omead Afshar, a production manager for St. Jude Medical who graduated in biomedical engineering in 2009, was in attendance. Afshar credits his UCI network with his success, explaining he found a seven-month co-op with St. Jude Medical after graduation thanks to connections from the school. He was thrilled with the night’s alumni event.
 
  
“I was happy to see UCI, especially engineering, put on a good event in a good location to establish the UCI name,” said Afshar.
 
  
Another big pull, for Afshar and many other alumni, was an opportunity to network with different schools, not just the usual suspects. “It’s nice to get a diverse group to balance out the engineering crowd,” he said.
 
  
 Future collaboration  
Can ICS, physical sciences and engineering expect more events like SkySpace?
 
  
“Our goal is to continue collaborating between the three schools in order for current students, recent graduates and seasoned alumni to better connect, grow and support each other in the convergent sciences,” Huerth confirmed.
 
  
Even the food fit the theme. The “tacotini,” taco fillings beautifully presented in a martini glass, was served to the guests’ amusement.  It was a dinner dish that, quite perfectly, embodied the diversity and charisma of the Los Angeles area.
 
  
Cocktails, hors d’oeuvres and networking book-ended the event, but half-way through came special announcements from all three deans. Deans Gregory Washington (engineering), Hal Stern (ICS) and Kenneth Janda (physical sciences) spoke on their respective schools’ achievements and bright futures. 
 
  
“We’re trying to be much more proactive in helping our school alums to network and to find internship possibilities for undergraduate and graduate students,” said Janda.
 
  
It was all positive news, but the real highlight of the evening came when all three deans took a ride down the Skyslide.
 
  
Jason Amansec, a tax analyst with  Ceridian  who earned his MBA in 2012 from UCI, said he couldn’t wait for the next joint networking opportunity. “It was really encouraging to see this type of event, especially in such an iconic location," said Amansec. "The food was great, the people were great and I hope the next one will expand to include other schools at UCI.”

  
 — Story by Katherine Li Smith, ICS Communications Manager 

 
  
 Event highlights  
View and share event photos on our Google Photos  album .

  
Watch the a video of the deans’ addresses on  Vimeo .



                      Anteaters unite in LA    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Waging war with no bombs or missiles



              
                Next &gt; 
                 How vulnerable are the nation’s electronic voting machines?

             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 