 Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences – Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences      Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences   Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences            Explore  
    Chair’s Welcome   
	   What is Statistics?   
	   Seminar Series   
	   UCI Center for Statistical Consulting   
	   Contact the Department   
  
   Faculty  
    Faculty Directory   
	   Job Opportunities   
  
   Research   
   Graduate Degrees  
    M.S. &amp; Ph.D. in Statistics   
	   Current Course Listings   
	   Graduate Student Directory   
  
   Undergraduate Degrees  
    B.S. in Data Science   
	   Minor in Statistics   
	   Current Course Listings   
	   Tutoring Resources   
  
     
		 
			 
				  

											 
							  
							 
																  Data Scientist ranked top U.S. job by Glassdoor  
															 
						 
					
						 
												   
											 

					 
									 

											 
							  
							 
																  3 ICS researchers named AAAS fellows  
								 Ramesh Jain, Hal Stern and Gene Tsudik are recognized by the American Association for the Advancement of Science for contributions to their fields. 
							 
						 
					
						 
												   
											 

					 
									 

											 
							  
							 
																  Nuno, Pluta receive graduate statistics award  
								 The two Ph.D. students were honored with Robert L. Newcomb Memorial Endowed Graduate Student Award 
							 
						 
					
						 
												   
											 

					 
									 

											 
							  
							 
																  ICS welcomes four new faculty members for fall 2016 quarter  
															 
						 
					
						 
												   
											 

					 
									 

											 
							  
							 
																  B.S. in Data Science  
								 Learn about our B.S. in Data Science, which has a dual emphasis on the principles of both statistics and computer science. 
							 
						 
					
						 
												   
											 

					 
								  
		 

     Welcome Since 2002, UCI’s  Department of Statistics</strong> has continued to grow as a leader in creating statistical methodology for use in data science applications. With an emphasis on research in statistical theory and interdisciplinary collaborations, the department has grown over the years to house the Center for Statistical Consulting, providing statistical expertise through collaborative relationships with researchers across the campus and community, and was one of the first in the world to offer an undergraduate degree in data science. Explore the statistics website to learn more about our accomplishments and how you can become part of our community.
    
  Midcareeer Professor Hiring Initiative</strong> 
To apply, please go to:  https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF03719  
    
  Statistics Seminar Series</strong>    Alberto Cassese</strong> 
Assistant Professor, Maastricht University
  A Hierarchical Bayesian Model for Inference of Copy Number Variants and Their Association with Gene Expression   Abstract  
 Thursday, February 9 at 4 p.m. 
Donald Bren Hall 6011 
 Check out our full schedule of speakers  here »    
  		 Latest News 
		  
				 Ph.D. Students Gao and Cruz receive ASA paper awards 
							 January 27, 2017 
						 
					 
				 Ombao, UCI Space-Time Modeling Group contribute to new  Handbook of Neuroimaging Data Analysis  
							 January 4, 2017 
						 
					 
				 Statistics Ph.D. Students Wang, Gao win ENAR Distinguished Paper Awards 
							 January 4, 2017 
						 
					 
				 Los Angeles Times: “Why giving people $5 to take a government survey is money well spent” by Jessica Utts 
							 October 26, 2016 
						 
					 
				 NSF awards Professor Shahbaba, UCI team $250K for big data analysis research 
							 July 15, 2016 
						 
				   			  News Archive  
		    			 

				 
						   
				 

				 
					  © 2017 UC Regents 
					     Feedback  
					     Privacy Policy  
					  

			 
	  </body> 