 Student Project Showcase @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Student Project Showcase 

 
 

  Student Innovations Featured in Annual Showcase  
 
More than 50 undergraduates in 14 teams presented their projects at the annual Student Project Showcase held March 22, 2012. The event highlighted a range of student innovations, from an interactive comic book for the iPad that teaches English to Japanese school-age children, to smartphone-enabled home automation. 
 
 





 
 
Information about each of the projects is listed below:
 





 
 INFORMATICS 191: SENIOR DESIGN PROJECT (THREE-QUARTER) 


 
  
  “CASETRAK”  
 
CaseTrak is a mobile application for medical students and residents to optimize the workflow of capturing statistical data related to clinical cases in which they are involved.
 
  Team Memory Lane:  Melody Budiono, Julie Darwish, Simon Huynh, Marcel Pufal, Kevin Sar
 
  Sponsor:  Department of Clinical Informatics, Medical Center, UCI
 


 
  
  “FIELD STUDY WEB PORTAL”  
 
The Field Study Web Portal is an overhaul of the current Social Ecology field study program website. This new web portal improves usability and communication with features such as the progress bar and web forms, and reduces student time spent searching for a field site with a searchable, sortable and filterable web table of field site listings. Students also have the ability to view the status of their applications, while community partners may review and give feedback to student applications within the web portal.
 
  Team Omega:  Grant Arjani, Chris Lang, Martina Mickos
 
  Sponsor:  Ashley Vikander, School of Social Ecology, UCI
 


 
  
  “INDYAVIDS MOBILE”  
 
IndyaVids Mobile is an Android application for the website IndyaVids, an instructional video site for Indian culture. The application allows users to search, explore and watch videos. As well you can register as a member and upload your own videos with a smartphone.
 
  Team Dynamic in Motion:  Matthew Ito, Brandon Lovrein, Zafar Mehboob, Tri Pham, William Yeh
 
  Sponsor:  Ash Kumra, IndyaVids
 


 
  
  “PORTFELO”  
 
Creating a new experience for photographers, models, make-up artists, wardrobe stylists and hair stylists to market their portfolio and network with each other.
 
  Team Aperture:  Danielle Yu, Evan White, Ferdinand Lucero Jr., Jordan White, Michael Cupino
 


 
  
  “PRESIDIO MOBILE”  
 
The Presidio Trust is an organization that maintains and preserves the Presidio National Park in San Francisco. This involves recording information about plant life, such as a species’ abundance or transferring less common species away from construction zones. Currently, a Presidio Trust field operative records plant information by walking around the park and taking notes using pen and paper. Afterwards, he returns to his office and types his notes into a desktop system in order to update the Presidio Trust plant records. Presidio Mobile, an Android application, streamlines the recording process by allowing plant information to be recorded and sent straight to the records without having to leave the park. In addition, Presidio Mobile can search through the records and view plant locations on a map.
 
  Team Chromatic:  Kenny Compass, Josh Ettlin, Linh Lam, Steven Nguyen, Sanjay Yashpaul
 
  Sponsor:  The Presidio Trust of San Francisco
 


 
  
  “READ &amp; MORE”  
 
Reading is commonly taught through phonics. However, children with Down Syndrome are visual learners; they learn to read more efficiently by actually seeing the connections between text and pictures. Read &amp; More is an interactive learning application designed with visual learners in mind. The app transforms the physical material used in classrooms into a virtual learning tool that can be used in classrooms and at home.
 
  Team LearnEd:  Candace Chen, Thanh Le, Muhammad Zaman, Matan Lurey, Vatsal Shah
 
  Sponsor:  Dana Halle, Down Syndrome Foundation of Orange County


 
 
  
  “THE STARLING QUARTERLY”  
 
We’ve created an interactive writing environment where students may learn and explore writing through poetry. The process is feedback intensive with a strong focus on enhancement through revision. We’ve looked to the community as a source of support and encouragement for the students, enabling them to view published works within the Starling Quarterly — a publicly accessible literary journal.
 
  Team Scribble:  Minda Wang, Jonathan Chang, Mike Tang, Christine Liang, Kevin Huynh
 
  Sponsor:  Sue Cronmiller, UCI Poetry Exchange


 
 
  
  “WHAT’S UP, JAMES?”  
 
What’s Up, James?” is an interactive comic book style iPad application. The purpose of this application is to facilitate and enforce correct English pronunciation by delivering it with a fun and interactive user interface. It also includes voice read-aloud capabilities.
 
  Team Applied Minds:  Stephan Chilingaryan, Ammar Takieldin, Shawn Ridgeway, Warren Trinh
 
  Sponsor:  Noriyasu Suzuki


 
 





 
 INFORMATICS 117: SOFTWARE SYSTEM DESIGN PROJECT (ONE-QUARTER) 


 
  
  “GSA CLOUD RESOURCE MANAGEMENT INTERFACE”  
 
The goal of the project is to take all the videos stored on GSA’s local hard drives and move them into Amazon’s S3 (Simple Storage Service) and keep track of each video’s meta data along with a link to the video resource in Amazon’s SDB (Simple Database). We have created a web app that will allow GSA to effectively manage their videos and database records by searching through the database using established keywords, inserting video meta data to match database structure, and uploading videos in bulk through a direct link to Amazon’s Management Console.
 
  Team Green:  Chris Gau, Humza Bhakhrani, Jonathan Yao, Kaveh Vazirzadeh, Zaid Ibrahim
 
  Sponsor:  GreenScreen Animals (GSA)


 
 
  
  “THE HARVEST CLUB WEB-BASED DATABASE SYSTEM”  
 
The OC Food Access Coalition runs a program called The Harvest Club. The Harvest Club wants build capacity to expand what they do in the community. They are currently using various database applications to manage all their information. The goal of this project is to merge all the existing software technologies into a single system and simplify the daily activities of The Harvest Club volunteers and staff.
 
  Team Nyan Catz:  Duy Thuy, Du The Du, Steven Salat, Lawrence Neill, Fernando Vargas
 
  Sponsor:  OC Food Access Coalition


 
 
  
  “ICS.JOBS”  
 
ICS.jobs is a website that connects students in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences with employers. It enables students to post profiles (including resumes) and employers to post jobs. Among several features, students may search posted jobs, and employers may search posted profiles.
 
  Team ICS.jobs:  Steven Neisius, James Supancic III, Makoto Kadota, Uyen Nguyen, Peter Park
 
  Sponsors:  Dan Frost and Colleen O’Higgins, Bren School, UCI


 
 
  
  “SCAPES (STUDYING COLLABORATIVE AUTHORING PRACTICES IN EDUCATIONAL SETTINGS”  
 
SCAPES analyzes the history of revisions of Google Docs. It aims to help research in patterns of collaborative writing and research in teacher-student interactions through Google Docs.
 
  Team Sucy:  Jordan Speer, Grace Uchida, Michael Cupino, Danielle Yu
 
  Sponsor:  Judith Olson, Bren School, UCI


 
 





 
 COMPUTER SCIENCE &amp; ENGINEERING 181: SENIOR DESIGN PROJECT (TWO-QUARTER) 


 
  
  “miHOME”  
 
The miHome project focuses on home automation. Sensors and actuators are placed around the house, which will allow a user with a smartphone to perform such tasks as remotely closing and opening a window or turning a light on and off.
 
  Team miHome:  Mike Li, Stephen Yang, Sonny Lin, David Dinh


 
 
  
  “THE NETWORK PROBE”  
 
The Network Probe project involves the development of an electronic device that can probe a network and gather information from the network through the use of Ethernet ports.
 
  Team Network Probe:  Adiel Ruiz, Antonio Ruballos, Charles Whitlock, Julian Lawrence


 
 







 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 