 CS 261, Spring 2013, Homework 7, Due Thursday, May 30


1. The standard deviation of a collection of n data values x_i may be
calculated by the formula

          n sum(x_i^2) - (sum x_i)^2
s = sqrt( -------------------------- ).
                  n (n-1)

(a) Give an example that shows that the standard deviation is not
decomposable.

    There are many examples. Perhaps the simplest is to choose n=2
    and to have two data values that are not the same as each other.
    Then the value of s for the whole set is a nonzero number
    but for each subset of just one element it is either undefined
    (because of the division by zero) or zero (if you define
    s to be zero when the top and bottom of the fraction in its
    definition are both themselves zero), neither of which helps
    to find the value of the whole formula.

    By the way, there are many different variations in the definition of the
    standard deviation or variance, depending on whether you include the
    square root operation or not and on whether you divide by n or n-1.
    The details of the definitions don't make a difference for this problem.

(b) Describe a decomposable range querying problem such that the
standard deviation of the data values within a query range can be
computed in constant time from the answer to your query.
(We went through a similar example for the average in the lecture.)

    Return the triple (n, sum x_i, sum x_i^2).
    If a set S is decomposed into two disjoint subsets A and B,
    the value for S is the vector sum of the values for A and B,
    so this is decomposable. And once this triple is known,
    the value of s can be computed using the formula above.


2. In class we saw how to compute the average of any contiguous subarray
of a one-dimensional matrix by looking up two sums of prefixes of the
matrix. Suppose that we have a two-dimensional matrix A (such as the
pixels in a grayscale image), and we store another matrix B of the same
dimensions, such that the value in B[i,j] is the sum of all entries
A[x,y] with 0  