 
ECHT'94:Chimera:Footnotes<body> 

 
   We recognize that some in the software engineering community would argue that more conventional object management systems are the appropriate technology for capturing relations and that free object association should not be allowed.  The purpose of this paper is not to argue this point.  Our perspective is that given some engineers prefer the hypertext approach, we examine how the approach may be supported.  

	    There is some overlap with our list and the fifteen assumptions listed by Leggett and Schnase when discussing hypermedia-in-the-large [21]. Since we arrived at our list independently, we view this as an indication our approach and contributions have significant value outside the domain of software development environments.  

	    From now on we will use the term "viewer" to denote tools capable of visually depicting an object and which may include interactive editing capabilities.  

	    According to Merriam-Webster's 9th Collegiate Dictionary, "an individual, organ, or part consisting of tissues of diverse genetic constitution..."  

	    FrameMaker is a registered trademark of Frame Technology Corporation.  

	    The set of hypertext events are left undefined in the conceptual architecture; only their existence is important at this point.  

	    This map is supplied and maintained by the administrator of a Chimera hyperweb.  

	    This is potentially troublesome since the user has to remember how this hypertext functionality is invoked for each viewer [9]. This is a design trade-off involving ease-of-use, open systems, and customized interfaces. We believe requiring a single, standard style to be too restrictive: that would prevent many existing viewers from participating in Chimera. On the other hand, it is possible to provide a set of reusable components that developers can utilize which simultaneously simplifies the task of writing viewers and promotes uniform authoring, display, and interaction styles.  

	    Since Chimera is an open hypertext system, this functionality can not be guaranteed across all viewers. It will only exist if the viewer developer decides to include it in a particular viewer.  

	    A client is assumed to have no interest in any event when it first contacts the Chimera server.  

	    The Graphics Interchange Format ©  is the Copyright property of CompuServe Incorporated.  GIF ®  is a Service Mark property of CompuServe Incorporated.  

	    As of this writing, Chimera supports the collaborative building, in a limited manner, of a single hyperweb, since all the viewers participating in the collaboration can register for the appropriate hypertext events from the Chimera server managing that particular hyperweb. It is limited in the fact that two or more users cannot modify the same link at the same time and the notification of other user's actions occurs after those actions have taken place. 
   

  
 
This page is part of the  Chimera  web site. 
Send feedback and questions to  Ken Anderson . 
Last updated on Thu, Sep 19, 1996 at 12:34:07 PM. 
 
</body> 