 First-ever Med AppJam a resounding success  @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 First-ever Med AppJam a resounding success 

 
 

  Novel program supported by the Kay Family Foundation brings together students from UC Irvine’s Bren School and School of Medicine  


 
 
More than 30 medical students and 100 information and computer sciences (ICS) students teamed up in the 
 first-ever Med AppJam  
— the biggest, so far, of the “build a fully functional mobile application in one week” AppJam franchise first launched in 2011 by the Bren School’s 
 ICS Student Council .  

The competition began Nov. 9 with a 
 kickoff event  
in Bren Hall, where 19 teams were formed. Over the next 10 days, the groups worked together to create iOS-based applications useful to both physicians and patients.  
 
 
Participants were given exclusive access to a new  iOS mobile lab , designed to foster student collaboration and cross-campus interaction. Funded by a generous gift from the Kay Family Foundation, the lab features state-of-the-art equipment, including MacBook Airs, iPads, Apple TVs and a PolyVision smartboard.
 
 
“The Kay Family Foundation is committed to fostering the application of technology to improve health care. Their interests in this area are consistent with our focus on interdisciplinary collaboration,” says Hal Stern, dean of the Bren School. “We were absolutely thrilled to partner with them on the Med AppJam.”
 
 
Med AppJam teams 
 blogged 
about their experience during competition week and on Nov. 19 
 showed off their work 
at the UCI Student Center, where a panel of academic and tech industry judges selected the top three apps. 
 
 
“It’s truly amazing what each team was able to accomplish given the time frame and resources,” says computer science major Adam Brenner, who helped organize Med AppJam with his ICS Student Council colleagues. “Each team and their members were pretty much strangers before Med AppJam, and 10 days later, they were working as one unit toward a common goal.”  
 
 
The winners are:





 
 
   “Life Buoy”  
  1st place
 
 
Life Buoy is a telemedicine application that provides up-to-date information regarding the location of relief centers and urgent care clinics in disaster zones. It wirelessly connects remotely isolated victims of natural disaster with physicians and health care personnel. The app features two user interfaces: an iPhone-based application for patients to upload their medical information and emergent medical complaints, and an iPad-based application for physicians to respond to those medical complaints.
 
 
 Team Members:   
Matthew Chan (Information and Computer Science), Bryan Lam (Computer Science and Engineering), Drake Tetreault (Computer Science), Lita Patel (Business Information Management), Peggy Bui (MD/MBA), Joe Hanson (MD/MBA)  


 
   “Global EMR (gEMR)”  
  2nd place 
 
 
Global EMR enables portable, accurate, organized and checklist-centered medical charting in areas of the world most in need of resources. It features an interface easily used in non-ideal environments, as well as the ability to transfer patient files through Bluetooth to create a central patient file database on one Apple product. “Global EMR” also includes Spanish translations for patient interviews and physicals for use by the medical mission 
 Flying Samaritans , 
whose volunteers travel to Mexico monthly.
 
 
 Team Members:   
Eugene Yang (Computer Science), Alan Chang (Business Information Management), Jaskaran Singh (Computer Science), Benjamin Pan (Business Information Management), Brenton Alexander (Medicine), Edsel Abud (Medicine)  


 
   “HappierU”  
  3rd place
 
 
HappierU is a tool to help patients combat depression. It has four main features: a mood tracker for daily use, a medication reminder, a resources page, and a “Get Help” function that either connects patients to 911 or the national suicide hotline during crisis situations, or connects them to a more relaxed suicide warm-line in non-crisis situations. The data compiled in the app can then be presented to a physician who can track trends and help their patients deal with events that may have triggered negative emotions. 
 
 
 Team Members: 
Milin Shah (Informatics), Anna Cebula (Computer Science), Jesse Puente (Information and Computer Science), Derek Wang (Business Economics), Adedamola Tombrown (Computer Science), Kambria Nguyen (Medicine)  




 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 