 Export Menu in the Hyperweb Server<body>

  Home  

 Export Menu 

 The Export menu contains three commands:  Export VOV ,  Export Web , and  Export Website . The purpose of these commands is to export hypermedia information from the Hyperweb Server's databases into ASCII text files. This functionality enables this information to be transferred between websites as well as to allow the information to be placed under configuration management. 

   

 Operations 

 Two of the three Export operations,  Export VOV  and  Export Website , are available at all times.   Export Web  is only available when a Chimera 2.0 hyperweb is selected in the Hyperwebs tab. 

 Export VOV 

 This command exports the information stored in the Hyperweb Server's VOV database to an ASCII text file. 

 To export a VOV database, select the Export VOV command from the Export menu. 

   

 The export file's location is specified via a file dialog box (shown below): 

   

 An export operation cannot proceed if a client is connected to the Hyperweb Server. A dialog box (see below) will warn the user of this situation and allow them to cancel the operation if necessary. 

   

 A dialog box will confirm the creation of the exported text file. 

   

 Export Web 

 This command exports the hypermedia information stored in the selected hyperweb to an ASCII text file. 

  Note : The  Export Web  command will be disabled unless a hyperweb is selected in the  Hyperwebs  tab. 

 In the example below  web1  is selected. 

   

 Select the  Export Web  command from the  Export  menu. 

   

 A file dialog box allows the user to specify the location of the exported ASCII file. 

   

 As discussed above, no clients may be connected during an export operation. If a client is connected, a dialog will appear asking if the operation should continue. 

 A dialog box will confirm the creation of the exported text file. 

   

 Export Website 

 This command exports the hypermedia information stored in an entire Chimera website (which includes the VOV database and all hyperwebs) to an ASCII text file. 

 To export a website, select the  Export Website  command from the  Export  menu. 

   

 A file dialog box allows the user to specify the location of the exported ASCII file. 

   

 As discussed above, no clients may be connected during an export operation. If a client is connected, a dialog will appear asking if the operation should continue. 

 A dialog box will confirm the creation of the exported text file. 

   

  Home  

</body> 