 WWW Configuration Management Home Page<body>
 Versioning and Configuration Management of 
World Wide Web Content 

  
This page was previously the home page for a working group on
adding versioning and configuration management capabilities to
the World Wide Web.  This working group has now been split -- the
current working group is now focusing on remote configuration management
of web content.  Discussion of WWW versioning issues now takes place
in the
 
WWW Distributed Authoring and Versioning Working Group (webdav) .
 

 
This page is still an excellent resource for pointers to work on
WWW versioning and configuration management, as well as hypertext
versioning.
 

  Discussion List 

 Discussion of the addition of configuration management
capabilities to the World Wide Web takes place on the discussion list
&lt;www-vers-wg@ics.uci.edu&gt;.  Requests to join this discussion list
may be sent to
 
&lt;www-vers-wg-request@ics.uci.edu&gt; 
 .  Discussion on this list is also
 
archived . 

 Existing Work and Proposals 
 
  
Four Lessons Learned from Managing World Wide Web Digital Libraries , 
Robert Pettengill and Guillermo Arango  
This early paper describes a development and maintenance process for a
"digital document library" (a.k.a., a collection of WWW content), the
need to make this process repeatable and as automated as possible, and
the use of separate maintenance and publications areas for visibility
control.  More relevant to this audience, the paper describes the need
for using version control on web content, the addition of a ",version"
to the requested URL, and explains the use of CGI scripts to
provide versioned access to a document collection. 

 
  Mortice Kern Systems (MKS) 
 Integrity Engine   
Integrity Engine Data Sheet   
MKS has developed HTTP server extensions for checkin, checkout, and
locking operations on specific entities.  Individual versions of an
entity may be accessed by specifying the version with the addition of
";version=" at the end of the requested URL.  The MKS approach,
described in a  
white paper , makes no modifications to HTTP, and
instead decorates the requested URL with the information of the
desired operation. 

 
  P3 Software 
 web://keeper   
P3 software has performed an integration of the P3 Configuration
Management system with the
 
Apache  server, which P3 has named
 web://keeper ,
thus allowing GETs of versioned
URLs on any object within a P3 repository. 

 
  
WWW Versioning Support, draft proposal (v 0.1) 
( Postscript )
 
Jim Whitehead  
This working draft describes a proposal for extending the HTTP
protocol with four new methods, FLAG, LOCK, UNLOCK, and USE, and
describes how they are used to provide style-independent versioning
with semantics controlled by the client.  Two appendicies give
examples of how the RCS and CVS styles are implemented using these
methods.  The proposal also describes a new entity type, the
 configuration , which allows the versions of a collection of
related entities to be described in a single file.
 

 
  NTT Software Laboratories, Palo Alto   
NTT Software Laboratories in Palo Alto (SPLA) recently announced on
the HTTP Working Group mailing list that they have completed a
prototype of an HTTP server which manages versions and configurations
of web objects.  While they apparently have a white paper which is
written in Japanese, and is currently undergoing translation into
English, some technical details were reported in the post.  The
versioning and configuration functions were implemented using LINK,
PUT, and "related methods".  Clients which understand how to use
these new functions have also been developed. 

 The NTT server is written in Perl.  Two clients were developed, one
using MetaCard, a GUI builder, along with a libwww library extended
to handle the additional methods.  The other client was written in
Java. 

 
  
Authoring Tools Breakout Session  at
 
WWW4   
Detecting Update Conflicts in HTTP   

The authoring tools breakout session identified the "lost update"
problem (when people performing parallel development on an entity
overwrite each other's changes) as an open issue requiring attention.
David Long of NaviSoft and Dan Connolly of W3C subsequently produced a
W3C working draft on the lost update problem titled,
 
Detecting Update Conflicts in HTTP .  This working draft presents
four levels at which this problem may be resolved: do nothing, detect
lost updates, prevent lost updates, and fairly prevent lost updates. 

 
  
Formal Modeling of a Resource-Leasing Extension to HTTP  
Rafal Boni, Rohit Khare, and Matthew Levine  
This paper describes a check-out/check-in scheme for HTTP which
aims to guarantee exclusive write access to a resource while it
is checked-out.  The scheme described does not handle parallel
development of resources.  The paper begins with a 
detailed discussion of the four-levels of potential resolution
of the lost update problem identified at the authoring tools
breakout session. 

 
  
Using Versioning to Support Collaboration on the WWW , 
Fabio Vitali,
 
David G. Durand   

This paper, presented at the
 
WWW4  conference, presents a different, interesting perspective
on how versioning of WWW content may be performed.  Their approach is
motivated by how to support asynchronous collaboration in the creation
and editing of text documents, which they feel requires extremely
fine-grain versioning.  This paper describes VTML, the Versioned Text
Markup Language, which is a markup language for describing the version
history of a document.  The VTML approach has the drawback that it
only applies to HTML content, and does not address the versioning
of bitmap images, an important class of web content. 

 
  
Original Design Issues: Versioning , 
Tim Berners-Lee  
The World Wide Web Consortium has an archive of notes dating from the
 
original design  of the web in 1990.  One of the issues is
"keeping track of previous versions of nodes and their relationships." 

 
  
Livelink Library for Document Management   Open Text Corporation   
This marketing blurb for the Livelink
Library, a component of Open Text's Livelink Intranet product,
describes web content versioning capabilities including
a change history, viewing of previous versions, and a lock-based
overwrite protection scheme.  Unfortunately, it is impossible
to determine the underlying technical approach from the
information presented. 

 Distributed Web Content Authoring Tools 

 
  
Microsoft 
 
FrontPage   
FrontPage: A Technical Overview   
Microsoft FrontPage, formerly Vermeer FrontPage, is an HTML editor
which can save work to an HTTP server which has been augmented with
the FrontPage server extensions.
 
Section C  of the FrontPage technical overview describes the
FrontPage server extensions in more detail, including its use of
the POST method for writing content to an HTTP server. 

 The   Internet
Development  site at Microsoft offers a wealth of additional
material.  Documents are available which describe Microsoft API calls
in the client side to go over the web to talk to server-side.  It also
provides access to beta and alpha releases.  Content changes daily.
The  
overview paper  is pretty interesting, since it may provide a
convergence for document objects at a higher level than DMA provides -
that is, cross-net delivery of content at the UI object level via OLE. 

 
  America Online PrimeHost 
 AOLpress 
and  AOLserver  
Documentation for
 
AOLpress  and
 
AOLserver   

The AOL PrimtHost hosting Service, formerly known as GNN Hosting
Service, fromerly known as NaviSoft, provides a service for using
their GNNpress software to publish web pages on their server for a
monthly fee.  Since you can currently
The America Online PrimeHost hosting service, formerly known as the
GNN Hosting Service, which in turn was formerly known as NaviSoft,
provides a service for using their AOLpress software to publish web
pages on their server for a monthly fee.  Since you can currently
 download
fully-functional , but non-supported versions of their AOLpress and
AOLserver tools, it is also possible to experiment with these
tools. 

 AOLpress employs the PUT method to write content to the AOLserver,
which implements access control features which control, among other
methods, who can PUT to particular namespaces within the server.  The
 
documentation  for the AOLserver describes how it distinguishes
BROWSE, PUT, MKDIR and DELETE as different administrative rights on
operations.
 

 
  Netscape 
 
Navigator Gold   
Navigator Gold Data Sheet   
Netscape Navigator Gold provides authoring of HTML documents, along with
publishing capability.  Navigator Gold uses the FTP protocol to write
content into the namespace of the HTTP server. 

 Hypertext Versioning Literature 

 The topic of hypertext versioning has been researched outside of
the WWW context within the academic hypertext community for several
years, and offers many insights into the WWW versioning problem.
Versioning of hypertexts was addressed by Ted Nelson in Literary
Machines, and in Engelbart's NLS journal facility in the 60's and
70's.  This issue was revisited and given renewed importance
by Frank Halasz in his extremely influential paper, "Reflections
on NoteCards: Seven Issues for the Next Generation of Hypermedia
Systems," published in Communications of the ACM in July, 1988, in
which he lists hypertext versioning as issue number 5.  These
issues were reexamined in a
 
keynote address  given by Halasz at
Hypertext'91. 

 
  
Proceedings of the Workshop on Versioning in Hypertext Systems , at 
ACM European Conference on Hypermedia Technology (ECHT'94) 
David Durand, Anja Haake, David Hicks, Fabio Vitali  
The proceedings from this workshop features papers on hypertext
versioning in technical documentation, legal applications, and
design, giving both requirements and solutions in these areas.
 

 
  
Palimpsest: A Data Model for Revision Control 
( Postscript ) 
David Durand 
In Proceedings of the CSCW'94 Workshop on Collaborative Hypermedia
Systems, Chapel Hill, NC, available as GMD Studien Nr. 239. Gesellschaft f r
Mathematik und Datenverarbeitung MBH 1994.  
The intellectual precursor to VTML, Palimpsest is a data model for
flexible merging and tracking of individual changes to shared hypertext
or multimedia documents.  This work is motivated by providing support for
collaborative hypertext editors where multiple people may be working on the
same document simultaneously. 

 
  
Version Control in Hypertext Systems , 
David L. Hicks, John J. Leggett, and John L. Schnase  
This paper, published as a technical report of the
 Hypermedia Research Lab  at
Texas A&amp;M University in 1991, is an early, influential paper which
examines many different versioning systems, and then describes
how the Personal Information Environment (PIE) system (described in
"A Layered Approach to Software Design," by Ira P. Goldstein, and
Daniel G. Bobrow, published in the book "Interactive Programming
Environments," edited by David R. Barstow, Howard E. Schrobe, and
Erik Sandewall.) layered data model can be used for hypertext
versioning.  The paper also gives requirements for hypertext
versioning. 

 
  
VerSE: Towards Hypertext Versioning Styles , 
Anja Haake and David Hicks, 
Proc. Hypertext'96, the Seventh ACM Conference on Hypertext, 1996,
pages 224-234.   
Under CoVer: The Implementation of a Contextual Version Server for
Hypertext Applications, 
Anja Haake, 
Proc. 1994 European Conference on Hypermedia Technology (ECHT'94),
pages 81-93.   
Take CoVer: Exploiting Version Support in Cooperative Systems, 
Anja Haake and Jörg M. Haake, 
Proc. ACM INTERCHI'93, Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems,
1993, pages 406-413.   Anja Haake  has been
performing excellent research on hypertext versioning for several
years at GMD-IPSI.  The papers listed above represent her most recent
work, and provide a comprehensive description of her research.  
 

 
 
Structural and Cognitive Problems in Providing Version Control for Hypertext,
 
Kasper Østerbye, 
Proc. Fourth ACM Conference on Hypertext (ECHT'92), 1992, pages 33-42.  
This paper is notable for its clear distinction between structural
(data modeling) and cognitive (interface) issues of hypertext versioning,
and its detailed discussion of each.
It also describes the versioning facilities of the HyperPro system.
 

 Relevant Software Configuration Management Literature 

 There is a large literature on software configuration management,
including proceedings from the six software configuration management
workshops (the most recent of which was
 
SCM6 , held in conjunction with the
 
18th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE18) ).
Papers on SCM also appear in the proceedings of ICSE.  Papers listed
below are ones that either have particular relevance to WWW versioning
and configuration management, or provide relevant background material.
 

 
  
Configuration Management Models in Commercial Environments  
Peter H. Feiler 
Software Engineering Institute Technical Report CMU/SEI-91-TR-7  
This early survey of configuration management tools contains an
excellent breakdown of these systems into four configuration
management models, or styles: checkout/checkin, composition, long
transaction model, and the change set model. 

 
  
A Generic Peer-to-Peer Repository for Distributed Configuration Management 
 
André van der Hoek 
Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on Software Engineering,
Berlin, Germany, March, 1996.  
This paper presents the NUCM system which allows for a NUCM client to
contact a distributed SCM repository and interact with it using
primitive operations, upon which are implemented higher-level CM styles.
If an analogy is made between a client of the NUCM system and a
user-agent, and between a NUCM repository and an HTTP server, this
paper has tremendous relevance for WWW versioning and CM. 

 
  
Distributed Revision Control Via the World Wide Web  
Jürgen Reuter, Stefan U. Hänßgen, James J. Hunt, and
Walter F. Tichy 
Proceedings of the Sixth International Workshop on Software Configuration
Management, Berlin, Germany, March, 1996.  
This paper describes a forms-based interface to the RCE (Revision
Control Engine, essentially an API to an RCS-like core of functionality)
which allows checkout, checkin, and viewing the version history of
artifacts in a distributed manner via the WWW.  The system described
in this paper does not modify the HTTP protocol, instead relying
on custom MIME types (and associated helper applications) along with
point-to-point socket connections to handle the file tranfers
associated with checkout and checkin operations. 

 
  
Configuration Management Yellow Pages  
André van der Hoek  

This is simply the best one-stop index to the burgeoning SCM tools
market, general information pages on CM, conferences on CM, job
openings, public-domain CM systems, consulting, education,
reviews, and more!  Outrageously comprehensive. 

  
 
University of California, Irvine   
Jim Whitehead &lt;ejw@ics.uci.edu&gt;   
Department of Information and Computer Science  
247 ICS2 #3425  
Irvine , CA  92697-3425  
 
 
Last modified: 07 Feb 1997
 
</body> 