 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  January 30,  2017
</strong>
 
      
      
         Hackathon showcases creativity, innovation</strong>
              HackUCI 2017 brought over 400 college hackers to campus for a weekend of programming challenges.    
                  

   
Orange County’s largest college hackathon,  HackUCI 2017 , descended upon the University of California, Irvine campus on January 13-15, 2017. The event brought together more than 400 eager and promising hackers to tackle true technical programming challenges using the latest software and hardware. The event was open to all college students.

  
“A lot of people come with creative ideas,” said senior computer science major Michelle Tjoa, a logistics officer for HackUCI. She pointed out a team that went so far as to create a small, self-driving car.

  
Although HackUCI has been an Irvine tradition for the last two years, this was the first time the event was held without a mandatory disruption over the weekend.

  
“This was the first overnight event at UCI because of the no-camping rule within the UC system,” said senior computer science major Dalton Kraatz, marketing director for HackUCI. “However through a lot of negotiations in proving that this is a viable event that brings positive promotion to the campus, as well as the computer science program, we were able to have this as the first big event to happen over a couple days without a break in the middle.”

  
HackUCI allows teams to start working on their hacks following the Friday evening kickoff and continue until Sunday morning. It is against the rules for teams to begin work on a project before the event or for them to steal another team’s source code. The projects are submitted via  Devpost to be judged by a guest panel.

  
This year’s judges included local tech industry professionals Mike Strange and Joey Shih of  Pariveda Solutions , a technology consulting firm in El Segundo; as well as Sharron Zhao, Zach Lanier and Andy Palumbo of  Cyclance , a local Irvine company that specializes in cybersecurity products and services.

  
Judges considered technical difficulty, polish, usefulness and originality while making their decisions. A total of 39 completed projects were submitted.

  
The following is a list of prize categories and the winning groups:
   Pariveda Solution's Best Social Hack — Won by  Clickblock  for their clickbait analysis tool. 
 	 Cylance's Best Data Science Hack — Won by  Monopoly Simulation  for their Monopoly analysis in a Monte Carlo-like scenario. 
 	 Best IoT Hack — Won by a first-time team for their IoT Greenhouse. 
 	 Best Education Hack — Won by UCI's own  Lecture Hall  for their iClicker, checkin, and real-time interest/understanding meter all-in-one application. 
 	 Organizer's Choice — Won by  Succinct  for their "turn complex words into simpler ideas" info-chart creator. 
 
Along with bragging rights, teams also won $2,350 worth of prizes like Corsair mechanical keyboards and Amazon Echo Dots, plus Cyclance and Pariveda Solutions prize packs.

 
“The students at UCI are really diligent in their projects; they work as hard as they can throughout the whole thing,” said senior computer science major Maddy Chan, a logistics officer for HackUCI.



  
Watch a highlights video of HackUCI 2017:



                      Hackathon showcases creativity, innovation    
                &lt; Previous 
                 University Of California-Irvine’s Hyperloop Prototype Ready For January Weekend Competition

              
                Next &gt; 
                 Tsudik's biometrics security research paper featured in February issue of CACM

             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 