 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
Theoretical Computer Science
 
   Planar orientations with low out-degree and compaction of adjacency matrices .  
M. Chrobak  and D. Eppstein.   Theor. Comp. Sci.  86 (2): 243–266, 1991 .
 
Describes efficient sequential and parallel algorithms for orienting the edges of
an undirected planar graph so that each vertex has few outgoing edges.
From such an orientation one can test in constant time whether a given edge exists.
One consequence is a parallel algorithm to list all subgraphs isomorphic to K3 or K4.
More recently this paper has been cited for its applications to
scheduling update operations in parallel finite element methods.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Extended dynamic subgraph statistics using  h -index parameterized
data structures . 
D. Eppstein,
 M. T. Goodrich ,
 D. Strash , and
 L. Trott .  Proc. 4th Int. Conf. on Combinatorial Optimization and Applications
(COCOA 2010) , Hawaii, 2010.  Springer,  Lecture Notes in
Comp. Sci.  6508, 2010, pp. 128–141 .  arXiv:1009.0783 .   Theor. Comput. Sci. 
447: 44–52, 2012  (special issue for COCOA 2010).
 
An earlier paper with Spiro at WADS 2009 provided dynamic graph
algorithms for counting how many copies of each possible type of
subgraph there are in a larger undirected graph, when the subgraphs have
at most three vertices. This paper extends the method to directed graphs
and to larger numbers of vertices per subgraph.
  
    Category-based routing in social networks: membership dimension and the small-world phenomenon . 
D. Eppstein,
 M. T. Goodrich ,
 M. Löffler ,
 D. Strash , and
 L. Trott .  Workshop on Graph Algorithms and Applications , Zürich,
Switzerland, July 2011.  International Conference on Computational
Aspects of Social Networks (CASoN 2011) , Salamanca, Spain, October
2011.  arXiv:1108.4675 .   Theor. Comput. Sci.  514: 96–104, 2013 . (Special issue on Graph
Algorithms and Applications: in Honor of Professor Giorgio Ausiello)  
We investigate greedy routing schemes for social networks, in which
participants know categorical information about some other participants
and use it to guide message delivery by forwarding messages to neighbors
that have more categories in common with the eventual destination.
We define the membership dimension of such a scheme to be the maximum
number of categories that any individual belongs to, a natural measure
of the cognitive load of greedy routing on its participants.
And we show that membership dimension is closely related to the small
world phenomenon: a social network can be given a category system with
polylogarithmic membership dimension that supports greedy routing if,
and only if, the network has polylogarithmic diameter.
  
     
 Journals  --
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 