 David Eppstein - Publications<body>
 David Eppstein - Publications 
  
  
Deep points in arrangements
 
   Iterated nearest neighbors and finding minimal polytopes . 
D. Eppstein and 
 J. Erickson . 
Tech. Rep. 92-71, ICS, UCI, 1992.  
 4th ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete Algorithms,  Austin, 1993, pp. 64–73 .   Disc. Comp. Geom.  11: 321–350, 1994 .
 
Showed that for various optimization criteria, the
optimal polygon containing  k  of  n 
points must be near one of the points, hence one can transform
time bounds involving several factors of  n 
to bounds linear in  n  but polynomial in  k. 
Used as a subroutine are data structures for finding several
 nearest neighbors  in rectilinear metric spaces, and
algorithms for finding the
 deepest point in an arrangement  of cubes or
spheres.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 Jeff's pub list entry  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    A deterministic linear time algorithm for geometric separators
and its applications . 
D. Eppstein, 
 
G.L. Miller , and 
 
S.-H. Teng .   9th ACM Symp. Comp. Geom.,  San Diego, 1993, pp. 99–108 .   Fundamenta Informaticae  22: 309–330, 1995 
(special issue on computational geometry).
 
Teng and others previously showed that certain geometric graphs had
small separators that could be found by lifting the graph to a sphere
one dimension up and choosing a random great circle.  Here we show
that epsilon-cuttings and the method of conditional expectations can be
used to guide a deterministic prune-and-search method for the same problem.
Applications include finding the intersection graph of a collection of
spheres and computing or approximating the maximum number of spheres
having a common intersection.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Computing the discrepancy .  
D. P. Dobkin  and D. Eppstein.   9th ACM Symp. Comp. Geom.,  San Diego, 1993, pp. 47–52. 
 
Measures how well a sample of points from a set works as a discrete
approximation to the continuous measure of shapes in the set,
using algorithms based on Overmars and van Leeuwen's dynamic convex hull
data structure.
Some versions of the problem also involve subroutines
for finding the deepest point in an arrangement of quadrants or orthants.
  
This paper was merged with results of Mitchell to form the journal version,
" Computing the discrepancy with applications
to supersampling patterns ".
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
    Computing the discrepancy with applications to supersampling patterns .  D. P. Dobkin ,
D. Eppstein, and
 D. P. Mitchell .   ACM Trans. on Graphics  15 (4): 354–376, 1996. 
 
Combines " Computing the discrepancy "
with experimental results of Mitchell on the discrepancies of various point sets,
emphasizing the application of low-discrepancy sets to anti-aliasing in
raytraced graphics.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer  --
 ACM DL )
  
    Approximating center points with iterated Radon points .  
K. Clarkson , D. Eppstein, 
 G.L. Miller ,
 C. Sturtivant , and 
 S.-H. Teng .   9th ACM Symp. Comp. Geom.,  San Diego, 1993, pp. 91–98 .   Int. J. Comp. Geom. &amp; Appl.  6 (3): 357–377, 1996 .
 
Given a collection of  n  sites,
a center point is a point (not necessarily a site)
such that no hyperplane through the centerpoint
partitions the collection into a very small and a very large subset.
Center points have been used by Teng and others
as a key step in the construction of geometric separators.
One can find a point with this property by choosing
a random sample of the collection and applying
 linear programming ,
but the complexity of that method grows exponentially with the dimension.
This paper proposes an alternate method that
produces lower quality approximations (in terms of the size
of the worst hyperplane partition) but takes time
polynomial in both  n  and  d. 
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
    Regression depth and center points .  N. Amenta ,
 M. Bern ,
D. Eppstein, and
 S.-H. Teng .  arXiv:cs.CG/9809037 .   3rd CGC
Worksh. Computational Geometry  , Brown Univ., 1998.   Disc. Comp. Geom.  23 (3): 305–323, 2000 .
 
We show that, for any set of n points in d dimensions, there exists a
hyperplane with
 regression depth  at least ceiling(n/(d+1)). as had
been conjectured by Rousseeuw and Hubert. Dually, for any
arrangement of n hyperplanes in d dimensions there exists a point
that cannot escape to infinity without crossing at least
ceiling(n/(d+1)) hyperplanes. We also apply our approach to
related questions on the existence of partitions of the data into
subsets such that a common plane has nonzero regression depth in
each subset, and to the computational complexity of regression
depth problems.
  ( BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Multivariate regression depth .  M. Bern 
and D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.CG/9912013 .  
 16th ACM Symp. Comp. Geom.,  Hong Kong, 2000, pp. 315–321 .  Disc. Comp. Geom.  28 (1): 1–17, 2002.
 
We generalize  regression depth 
to k-flats. The k=0 case gives the
classical notion of center points. We prove that
for any set of n points in R d  there always
exists a k-flat with depth at least a constant fraction of n. As a
consequence, we derive a linear-time (1+epsilon)-approximation
algorithm for the deepest flat.
The full version of this paper also includes results from
" Computing the Depth of a Flat ".
  
( BibTeX  --
 SCG paper  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Computing the depth of a flat .  M. Bern 
and D. Eppstein.  arXiv:cs.CG/0009024 .  
 12th ACM-SIAM Symp. Discrete Algorithms, 
Washington, 2001, pp. 700–701 .
 
We compute the  regression depth  of a k-flat
in a set of n d-dimensional
points, in time O(n d-2 ), an order of magnitude faster than
the best known algorithms for computing the depth of a point or of a
hyperplane.
The results from this conference paper have been merged into the full
version of
" Multivariate Regression Depth ".
  
( SODA talk slides  --
 SODA paper  --
 BibTeX  --
 Citations  --
 CiteSeer )
  
    Depth and arrangements . 
D. Eppstein. 
Invited talk at DIMACS Worksh. on Data Depth, New Brunswick, NJ, 2003. 
Invited
talk at MSRI Introductory Worksh. Discrete &amp; Computational Geometry,
Berkeley, CA, 2003.
 
Surveys projective duality and its uses in
 algorithms for robust regression .
The MSRI talk used the alternative title "Computational geometry and
robust statistics" but contained essentially the same content.
  
( DIMACS talk slides  --
 video and slides of MSRI talk )
  
    Deterministic sampling and range counting in geometric data streams .  A. Bagchi ,
 A. Chaudhary ,
D. Eppstein, and
 M. T. Goodrich .  arXiv:cs.CG/0307027 .  20th ACM Symp. Comp. Geom.,  Brooklyn, 2004, pp. 144–151.   ACM Trans. Algorithms  3(2):A16, 2007 .
 
We describe an efficient streaming-model construction of epsilon-nets
and epsilon-approximations, and use it to find deterministic streaming-model
approximation algorithms for iceberg range queries and for various
robust statistics problems.
  
( BibTeX  --
 Citations )
  
    Comment on "Location-Scale Depth".  
D. Eppstein.   J. Amer. Stat. Assoc.  99 (468): 976–979, 2004 .
 
Discusses a paper by Mizera and Müller on depth-based methods
for simultaneously fitting both a center and a radius to a set of
sample points, by viewing the points as lying on the boundary of a model
of a higher dimensional  hyperbolic
space .  Reformulates their method in
combinatorial terms more
likely to be familiar to computational geometers, and discusses
the algorithmic implications of their work.
  
     
 Geometry  --
 Publications  --
 David Eppstein  --
 Theory Group  --
 Inf. &amp; Comp. Sci.  --
 UC Irvine 
  
 Semi-automatically  filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 