 Servers tab in the Chimera Server<body>

  Home  

 Servers tab 

 The Chimera Server allows the user to select a Chimera website to retrieve and store hypermedia information. These websites can be located on the same machine, on a LAN, or even a WAN. The Chimera Server works with the Hyperweb Manager and the Hyperweb Server to provide the user's Chimera clients with access to the hypermedia information stored in these websites. 

 The Servers tab allows a user to specify and access Chimera websites. A Chimera website is identified by the name of its host computer. The available hostnames appear in the Servers list. 

   

 Operations 

 The Chimera Server provides four operations within the Servers tab:  Login ,  Logout ,  Add Server , and  Remove Server . 

 Login 

 The Login operation allows the user to connect to a Chimera website. 
The Login operation is enabled when there is no Chimera website connected to
the Chimera Server and there is a hostname for a Chimera website selected from the
hostname list.
In order to Login to a Chimera website, first select a hostname from those listed in the Server list. A selected hostname can be selected by clicking on it, 
and will appear in the box next to the Login button.  In order to select another 
Chimera website, you must first logout of the current website. See the documentation for the  Logout  command below. 

 In the example below, to connect to the website  st-denis.ics.uci.edu 
click the Login button. 

   


  Note : If the Login attempt with a Chimera website succeeds, the display will automatically shift to the  Webs  tab.  This allows the user to select a hyperweb that is stored on the connected Chimera website. See the  documentation  of the  Webs  tab for further details. 

 Logout 

 The Logout operation allows the user to disconnect from the currently connected Chimera website. The Logout button is enabled only when the Chimera Server is connected to a Chimera website. The connected website's hostname is in the box
next to the Logout button.  

 In the example below, to disconnect from the  st-denis.ics.uci.edu  website, click the Logout button. 

   

 When the Chimera Server is not connected to a Chimera website, the Servers tab will have a list with no highlighted items and a disabled Logout button. 

   

 Add Server 

 The Add Server operation adds a Chimera website to the hostnames in the 
list.  Add Server is enabled when there is no Chimera websites logged in.  
When the Add Server button is clicked, a dialog box appears where you
assign a new host name to be added to the list. 

 In the example below, the Add Server button has been clicked and 
the host  mirabeau.ics.uci.edu  is about to be added to the hostname list. 

   

 Remove Server 

 The Remove Server operation removes a hostname for the list.  Remove Server
is enabled when there is no Chimera website logged in and when there is a 
hostname highlighted in the list.  A hostname becomes highlighted when 
you click on it.  
 

  In the example below, the first image has a host 
 mirabeau.ics.uci.edu  which will be removed.
The second image is after the Remove Server button has been clicked.
 

   

   

  Home  

</body> 