 Opportunities | Eric Mjolsness 
 
	 
		 
			 
								 
					 
						 Eric Mjolsness 
					 
				 
				 Department of Computer Science, University of California Irvine 

										  

			 
			  				  Skip to content  
								    Home    Papers 
   Computational Biology Papers  
	  Modeling Frameworks Papers  
	  Machine Learning Papers  
	  Vision and Image Analysis Papers  
	  Optimization Papers  
	  Cognition Papers  
	  Computational Field Geology Papers  
	  Neural Network Papers  
	  Calculational papers  
  
  Projects 
   Computational Biology Projects 
	   Computable Plant Project  
	  
  
  Topics  
  Software 
   Research Software – Computational Biology  
	  Cambium biomathematical model translation software  
  
  Talks 
   Talks – Computational Biology  
  
  Teaching  
  PhD Theses  
  Reviews  
  Grand Questions  
  CV &amp; News  
  Opportunities  
  
			 
		 
	 

	 

		 
			 

			

				 
											 Opportunities 
					
					 
						  (Research Opportunities)</strong> 
 Research opportunities currently exist for both graduate students and prospective postdoctoral scholars. 
   Prospective PhD students </strong> should apply to one of these graduate programs: 
    –  Computer Science  
    –  Mathematical, Computational, and Systems Biology , 
mentioning my name in your application. Please note that my current research approaches all require a strong mathematical background and an interest in computational science. I am currently recruiting for the following projects: 
  Project: Gene Regulation Network (GRN) inference  
In collaboration with UCI biologists, we will use pioneering GRN mathematical models along with machine learning based inference methods to computationally understand the gene regulation network that determines early endoderm patterning in vertebrates. (For much more detailed background see my  computational biology papers , particularly on transcriptional regulation and development.) 
  Project: Modeling languages for computational biology and AI  
We will seek and exploit useful overlap between formally defined scientific modeling languages we have developed for computational biology, including machine-learning techniques for model reduction, and the “probabilistic programming” approach to general-purpose high-level machine learning in artificial intelligence (AI). 
 Other projects may also be possible; see my recent publications for current interests. 
   A postdoctoral scholar position </strong> is possible in accordance with the following UCI advertisement: 
   Position: Postdoctoral Scholars 
Institute for Genomics &amp; Bioinformatics 
Department of Computer Science 
University of California, Irvine </strong> 
 The Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics and the Department of Computer Science at UC Irvine has a full-time postdoctoral scholar position available in the area of mathematical methods for machine learning and computational science. The successful application will conduct research in Professor Eric Mjolsness’s research group and their responsibilities will include conducting basic research on high-level mathematical languages and new mathematical methods for modeling complex datasets, including gene expression data, spatiotemporal data, and relational data. 
 Further responsibilities include research presentations and technical writing, as well as collaborating with graduate students, postdoctoral scholars, and faculty in the department.  
 It is preferred that applicants should have strong research experience, publications and broad knowledge in the foregoing fields of research. Applicants must have earned a Ph.D. in Computer Science, the physical sciences, Applied Mathematics, Statistics, Electrical Engineering, or a closely-related discipline. Strong mathematical skills are required. Strong software experience including both numerical and symbolic programming and computer algebra is preferred. 
 The salary range for this position will be commensurate with training and experience. The appointment will initially be for a one-year period with extensions to additional years possible subject to availability of funding. Earliest date of appointment is January 15, 2014. 
 Interested applicants should apply by email to Eric Mjolsness, emj@uci.edu , with a subject line containing “Application for postdoctoral position in Mjolsness group.” Applicants should attach curriculum vitae in PDF format to their application, including a list of publications and the names and addresses of three references. Applicants who are unable to apply electronically should send their application by mail to: 
 Prof. Eric Mjolsness, 
Department of Computer Science 
Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences   
University of California, Irvine 
6082 Donald Bren Hall 
CA 92697-3435 
  The University of California, Irvine is an equal opportunity employer committed to excellence through diversity.  
																	 
				 

				
			 




 


			 
		 


		 
			  
				 
					 Search for: 
					 
			 		 		 Recent Posts 		  
				 UCI academic site 
						 
				  		  Recent Comments      Archives 		   December 2012  
		    Categories 		   Uncategorized 
 
		    Meta 			   Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  			  			  

	 

	 
		 



			 
				 
					Eric Mjolsness				 
			 

			 
								 Proudly powered by WordPress. 
			 

		 
	 

 



</body> 