 ICS 104 * Assignment 2<body>
  
  
 W INTER   2004  
--  Information and Computer Science 
--  UC Irvine  --  David G. Kay 
--  ICS 104    
  
  S ECOND  H OMEWORK    
  
 This assignment is due by noon on Friday,
February 6.  
  
  (a)   In the last week or two, we have
discussed (and you have read about) these topics among others:  
  
 Cognition (attention, perception, memory)  
   
 Pre-attentive processing, gestalt laws  
   
 Graphical coding  
   
 Unconventional input or output devices (i.e.,
not displays, keyboards, mice, or trackballs)  
   
 Computer-supported cooperative work  
   
 Anthropomorphism  
  
 Pick three of these six topics; for each of
the three, choose an example from your HCI notebook (or find an example
from your own experience if your notebook doesn't have one) that illustrates
the topic.  Your examples may show a misapplication or misunderstanding
of the principles or may be a particularly good example; in either case,
describe and analyze each example using the terms and guidelines that pertain
to the topic it illustrates.  If your example is a negative one, suggest
an improvement and describe why your suggestion is better.  
 
 A dozen pithy lines of text should be sufficient
(where "pithy" means clean, clear, well-organized, terse, and
not padded) for each of the three examples; half a page for each is an absolute
maximum.  (Again, this refers just to the text; you will probably use more
than half a page each, counting illustrations.)  
 
  (b)   How many different items have
you recorded in your HCI notebook so far?  We'll give full credit for
any truthful answer to this, even zero, but we'd like to know how much
use the class is making of these notebooks.  
 
  (c)   Look at the HP Cooltown video
(giving a vision of ubiquitous computing) at    http://cooltown.hp.com/mpulse/backissues/0601/0601-cooltown.asp   ,
considering it in terms of agents, anthropomorphism, social conventions,
and its emotional effects on its users.  You may answer in terms of the
technological vision (i.e., assuming that the system will be implemented
essentially as described in the video) or in terms of technological realities
and limitations (i.e., considering what difficulties might actually prevent
the video's vision from being realized), or both.  What social and emotional
effects, especially unintended ones, might Cooltown produce?  
 
 Give your reaction, opinion, and analysis
of these issues in half a (single-spaced) page, with one page as a maximum.
 At that relatively short length, of course you won't be able to cover
every aspect in depth; just show us that you've thought seriously about
these issues.  
 
  (d)   This part is preparation for a
later assignment.  
 
 Pick a partner who is also enrolled in the
class.  Together, find three different application programs that perform
the same function.  Choose applications that do something relatively simple:
 Rather than a word processor or a database or a graphics editor, choose
a desktop calculator, a virtual alarm clock, a Shanghai game, an instant
messaging client, or any other single-function tool.  Identify three different
versions (perhaps using shareware sources on the Internet; nobody should
have to purchase anything for this assignment) and install them on a machine
(or machines) you can use.  It would also be acceptable to choose three
web sites with similar aims (e.g., the travel sites Expedia, Orbitz, and
Travelocity), though they may be more complex than single-function applications.  
 
 In a later assignment, we will ask you to
compare the user interfaces of these applications.  They are likely to have
some differences in functionality, but we will ask you to concentrate on
tasks that all three perform and the HCI aspects of those comparable tasks.
 For now, though, just find a partner, decide on an application category,
and locate and install the software (or locate the web sites).  You don't
need to turn anything in for this part.  
  
 Combine all your answers into one electronic
document and submit it via Checkmate.  (The guidelines about hand-drawn
illustrations also apply.)  
  
 Written by David G. Kay, Winter 2004.  
  
 
  
  
  David G. Kay ,
 406B Computer Science
   University of California, Irvine 
   Irvine, CA  92697-3425  
 --     (949) 824-5072   
 --  Fax    (949) 824-4056   
 --  Email   
     kay@uci.edu 
    

 
 Thursday, February 5, 2004 -- 4:29 AM  
</body> 