 press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Press releases  


     
 Press release 

 
 





  January 30,  2013</strong>  UCI team finds new target for treating wide spectrum of cancers</strong>  
  



 UC Irvine researchers Peter Kaiser and Richard Lathrop discuss p53 and the implications it has for cancer research. 

 





 
 Irvine, Calif., Jan. 30, 2013</strong> — UC Irvine biologists, chemists and computer scientists have identified an elusive pocket on the surface of the p53 protein that can be targeted by cancer-fighting drugs. The finding heralds a new treatment approach, as mutant forms of this protein are implicated in nearly 40 percent of diagnosed cases of cancer, which kills more than half a million Americans each year.

  
In an open-source study 
 published online  
this week in  Nature Communications , the UC Irvine researchers describe how they employed a computational method to capture the various shapes of the p53 protein. In its regular form, p53 helps repair damaged DNA in cells or triggers cell death if the damage is too great; it has been called the “guardian of the genome.”

  
Mutant p53, however, does not function properly, allowing the cancer cells it normally would target to slip through control mechanisms and proliferate. For this reason, the protein is a key target of research on cancer therapeutics.



  
   
Within cells, p53 proteins undulate constantly, much like a seaweed bed in the ocean, making binding sites for potential drug compounds difficult to locate. But through a computational method called molecular dynamics, the UC Irvine team created a computer simulation of these physical movements and identified an elusive binding pocket that’s open only 5 percent of the time.

  
After using a computer to screen a library of 2,298 small molecules, the researchers selected the 45 most promising to undergo biological assays. Among these 45 compounds, they found one, called stictic acid, that fits into the protein pocket and triggers tumor-suppressing abilities in mutant p53s.

  
While stictic acid cannot be developed into a viable drug, noted study co-leader Peter Kaiser, professor of biological chemistry, the work suggests that a comprehensive screening of small molecules with similar traits may uncover a usable compound that binds to this specific p53 pocket.

  
“The discovery and pharmaceutical development of such a compound could have a profound impact on cancer treatments,” Kaiser said. “Instead of focusing on a specific form of the disease, oncologists could treat a wide spectrum of cancers, including those of the lung and breast.” He added that there is currently one group of experimental drugs – called Nutlins – that stop p53 degradation, but they don’t target protein mutations as would a drug binding to the newly discovered pocket.

  
The results are the culmination of years of labor by researchers with UC Irvine’s Institute for Genomics &amp; Bioinformatics and the Chao Family Comprehensive Cancer Center.

  
“It’s been a large and complex multidisciplinary effort,” said Richard Lathrop, professor of computer science and co-leader of the study. “We’re working on the leading edge of what’s possible, and a variety of skills and expertise is required to make progress. Hopefully, our research eventually will lead to drugs that target many different forms of cancer.”

  
Hartmut Luecke, UC Irvine professor of molecular biology &amp; biochemistry and physiology &amp; biophysics, and Rommie Amaro, an assistant professor of computer science and pharmaceutical sciences who is now at UC San Diego, were other study co-leaders.

  
Additional UC Irvine team members included:
   Laboratory assistant Faezeh Salehi with the Department of Computer Science;
     Postdoctoral scholar Roberta Baronio, staff research associate Linda Hall, graduate student researcher Da-Wei Lin and undergraduate student Benjamin Chung with the Department of Biological Chemistry;
     Graduate student Brad Wallentine and postdoctoral scholar Chiung-Kuang Chen with the Department of Molecular Biology &amp; Biochemistry;
     Richard Chamberlin, professor and chair of pharmaceutical sciences and professor of chemistry; and
     G. Wesley Hatfield, professor of microbiology &amp; molecular genetics and chemical engineering &amp; materials science.
   
Former UC Irvine postdoctoral researcher Christopher Wassman and Özlem Demir, a former UC Irvine postdoctoral scholar now at UC San Diego, also contributed.



  
This work was funded in part by the National Cancer Institute (grants R01CA112560 and T32CA009054), the National Institutes of Health (grants DP2-OD007237 and R01AI78000), the National Science Foundation (grants LRAC CHE060073N, CHE-0840513 and IIS-0326037) and the UC Irvine School of Medicine Dean’s Triumvirate Grant.


  
 About the University of California, Irvine</strong>: Founded in 1965, UCI is a top-ranked university dedicated to research, scholarship and community service. Led by Chancellor Michael Drake since 2005, UCI is among the most dynamic campuses in the University of California system, with more than 28,000 undergraduate and graduate students, 1,100 faculty and 9,400 staff. Orange County’s second-largest employer, UCI contributes an annual economic impact of $4.3 billion. For more UCI news, visit http://news.uci.edu.

  
 News Radio</strong>: UCI maintains on campus an ISDN line for conducting interviews with its faculty and experts. Use of this line is available for a fee to radio news programs/stations that wish to interview UCI faculty and experts. Use of the ISDN line is subject to availability and approval by the university.


  


 CONTACT:  	
Tom Vasich  
Phone: (949) 824-6455   tmvasich@uci.edu 




   
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 