 
			Dr. Rina Dechter @ UCI :: Constraint Processing, the book :: Commentary
		<body> 
			 
				 

   
Prof. Rina Dechter, Ph.D  
Artificial Intelligence 
Office: DBH 4232 
Phone: 1.949.824.6556 
Email: dechter_at_ics.uci.edu
 

 
    Highlights and News    
     PACE CHALLENGE (2016)       
Our CVO algorithm won first place in the parallel heuristic treewidth category of the 1st Parameterized Algorithms and Computational Experiments (PACE) Challenge. 
( link  /  paper  /  slides )       BOOK (2013)         Reasoning with Probabilistic and Deterministic Graphical Models: Exact Algorithms         AWARD        
2013 ACM Fellow
( link 1  /
 link 2 )

    PASCAL CHALLENGE (2012)       Solvers by current and former students won first places in all nine categories of the 2011 PASCAL Probabilistic Inference Challenge. ( link 1  /  link 2 )       UAI COMPETITION (2010)       Our solvers IJGP and FormulaSampleSearch won first places in two categories each, Daoopt won third place in three categories. ( link 1  /  link 2 )       MINI-SCHOOL        UCI Lifted Algorithms Mini-School (November 3-6)        BOOK (2010)       'Heuristic, probability and Causality: a tribute to Judea Pearl'  (link)        IJCAI 2013 TUTORIAL         Constraint Processing and Probabilistic Reasoning        More  
      




 
 

 

 Home 
 Biographical 

 Research Overview 
 My Group 

 Publications  
 Selected Talks 


 Awards 

 Software  
 Courses 
 My Books 
    
    
 
 
 
 

				 
					 
						 
							Constraint Processing
						 
						 
							 by Rina Dechter 
						 
						 
							 Published by Morgan Kaufmann 
						       
									 
										About The Book
									 
									 
										 
											Constraint satisfaction is a simple but powerful tool. Constraints identify the impossible and reduce the realm of possibilities to effectively focus on the possible, allowing for a natural declarative formulation of what must be satisfied, without expressing how. The field of constraint reasoning has matured over the last three decades with contributions from a diverse community of researchers in artificial intelligence, databases and programming languages, operations research, management science, and applied mathematics. Today, constraint problems are used to model cognitive tasks in vision, language comprehension, default reasoning, diagnosis, scheduling, temporal and spatial reasoning.
										 
										 
											In Constraint Processing, Rina Dechter, synthesizes these contributions, along with her own significant work, to provide the first comprehensive examination of the theory that underlies constraint processing algorithms. Throughout, she focuses on fundamental tools and principles, emphasizing the representation and analysis of algorithms.
										 
										 
											 Readership:  Researchers and practitioners in artificial intelligence and operations research; graduate students and senior undergraduate students in artificial intelligence and operations research
										 
										 
											 ISBN:  1-55860-890-7
										 
										 
											 Pages:  450
										 
										 
											 Imprint:</strong> Morgan Kaufmann
										 
										 
											 Publication Date:  5 May 2003
										 
										 
											 Price:  $65.95
										 
										 
											Table of Contents
										 
										  Preface
											 
											 Introduction
											 
											 Constraint Networks
											 
											 Consistency-Enforcing Algorithms
											 
											 Directonal Consistency
											 
											 General Search Statagies: Look Ahead
											 
											 General Search Statagies: Look-Back
											 
											 Local Search Algorithms
											 
											 Advanced Consistency Methods
											 
											 Tree-Decomposition Methods
											 
											 Hybrid of Search and Inference: Time-Space Trade-offs
											 
											 Tractable Constraint Languages
											 
											 Temporal Constraint Netwoks
											 
											 Constraint Optimization
											 
											 Probabilistic Networks
											 
											 Constraint Logic Programming
											 
											 Bibliography
											 
										  
								 
							    
				   
 School of Information and Computer Science 
 University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3435 
 Dr. Rina Dechter 

 dechter at ics.uci.edu 

  
			 
		 </body> 