 Shivajit Mohapatra's Homepage :: mopy :: Shivjit 

    
                
                 
                     
                         
                             
                                  
                                         
                                            Bio
                                         
                                     
                                     
                                         Portfolio 
                                     
                                     
                                         Publications 
                                     
                                     
                                         Engagements 
                                     
                                     
                                         Personal 
                                     
                                     
                                         Miscellanea 
                                     
                                  
                         
                     
                 
                

                


                  
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                 
                    Here is a list of some other projects that I have worked on.    
                      :: Other Projects  
                      
                         TV Everywhere 
                           
                                  
                             
                                 
                                    I designed (with  Van Vuong ) and implemented a HTML5 web application for tablets
                                    that was used by the Motorola TVEverywhere initiative. The application was designed
                                    to
                                    connect
                                    to the TVE backend and provide a listing of recorded, ongoing, live and scheduled
                                    programs
                                    which could then be played back on the tablet. (2012)
                                 

                             
                              
                         Video Text Capture 
                           
                                  
                             
                                 
                                    I designed this simple proof of concept web application to demonstrate technology
                                    developed in-house for converting closed caption in videos to text. The application
                                    hosted
                                    on a Nodejs server and presents the ability to outline a text box on the video. The
                                    application
                                    then sends the selection over to the media analysis backend where the text detection
                                    algorithm
                                    is executed and the text is returned and displayed on the browser. This is joint
                                    work
                                    with
                                    the media analysis team at motorola labs. (2012)
                                 

                             
                              
                         Presence Enabled Phone Address-Book 
                           
                                  
                             
                                 
                                    I designed and prototyped a distributed context-aware middleware system
                                    that captured and associated an individual’s predisposition to communicate
                                    with a contact (based on the history of past interactions). The system
                                    then processed these associations and enhanced the phone contacts application
                                    to display a personalized availability indicator for each contact or a set
                                    of contacts. The notion was that users could then use this indicator to
                                    initiate communication with their contacts. The concept was to distribute the
                                    application so that the mining and prediction algorithms would execute on a
                                    distributed server. (2007)
                                 

                                 Related disclosure: System and Apparatus for Probabilistically
                                    Indicating Personalized Availability of Address Book Contacts
                                 
                             
                              
                         Cache 'n Carry 
                           
                                  
                             
                                 

                                    In 2006, I worked on a project where we designed and developed a prototype
                                    middleware
                                    framework
                                    called “Cache and Carry” that exploited predictive caching to present
                                    applications
                                    with a seemingly infinite content store, while allocating storage fairly across
                                    multiple
                                    applications. This was achieved by dynamically pre-fetching content items during
                                    periods
                                    of connectivity and garbage collecting of irrelevant (used) content based on their
                                    perceived utility. (2006-2007)
                                 


                                 
                                    Here is a hilarious  video  of me trying to
                                    shoot an impromptu demo video for this project.
                                 


                             
                              
                         Time Based Coordination of Networked Embedded Nodes 
                           
                                  
                             
                                 
                                   This project was a part of the NEST (Networked Embedded Software Technology)
                                    program at ITO, Darpa. The goal was to develop a spy location
                                    tracking system, using a sensors (Berkeley motes), iPaQs, Laptops and
                                    desktop machines. The project started out as a joint project with
                                    UCI DreamLab, but later we ended up as two separate groups programming the
                                    Location Tracking System separately.
                                 
                             
                            
             
           
                
                 
                     ©
                         Shivajit Mohapatra 
                          
                 
             
           </body> 