 Soundex<body>
   
	 Soundex  
	  
	    
   
	   
	 
	This form will convert a surname to the corresponding soundex code (4 characters),
	using the rules specified in the National Archive's handbook. Type the name in
	the  ENTRY  textbox and click the  SOUNDEX  button. The Soundex code
	will be displayed in the  RESULT  textbox.
	 
	 
	 
	Enter a Surname: 
	 
	
	Soundex Result: 
	    
	   Note: Requires JavaScript 1.0 capable browser.  
	     The Soundex Coding System  
	    
	      
	   To find an individual among the millions listed in the 1900 and later
censuses, you will use an index and filing system called the Soundex.
The Soundex is a coded surname (last name) index based
on the way a surname sounds, rather than the way it is spelled.
Surnames that sound the same, but are spelled
differently, like SMITH and SMYTH, have the same code and are filed
together. Surnames that sound similar, like Miller and Müller, are also coded to the same Soundex. The Soundex coding system was developed so that you can find
a surname even though it may have been recorded under various spellings.
 To search for a particular surname, you must find out its code. Every
Soundex code consists of a letter and three numbers, like M460. The letter
is always the first letter of the surname. The numbers are assigned to the
remaining letters of the surname according to the Soundex coding guide.
 Most surnames can be coded using the following four steps. For names
with prefixes, double letters, or letters side by side that have the same
number on the Soundex coding guide, see  "Additional Rules" .
	    
 
         
   
      SOUNDEX CODING GUIDE        
   The number 
     
   Represents the letters 
     
      
   1 
     
   B P F V 
     
     
  2 
    
  C S K G J Q X Z 
    
     
  3     D T 
     
  4     L 
     
  5     M N 
     
  6     R 
   Disregard the letters A, E, I, O, U, W, Y, and H. 
         
           Step 1      On the Surname line (line 1), write the surname you are coding, placing one letter in each box.      Step 2      On the Soundex line (line 2), write the first letter of the surname in the first box.       Step 3      On the Surname line (line 1), disregarding the first letter, slash through the remaining letters
A, E, I, O, U, W, Y, and H.      Step 4      On the Soundex line (line 2), write the numbers found on the Soundex Coding Guide for the
first three remaining unslashed letters. Add zeros to any empty boxes.
Disregard any additional letters.    
     
  
     "Additional Rules"  
	 
     
      NAMES WITH PREFIXES   
	If your surname has a prefix - like Van, Von, De, Di, or Le - you should code
	it both with and without the prefix because it might be listed under either code.
	The surname vanDever, for example, should be coded in two ways, as VANDEVER
	and DEVER. The soundex results will be V531 and D160, respectively.
	(Mc and Mac are  not  considered prefixes.)    
	  
	     
     NAMES WITH DOUBLE LETTERS   
	If your surname has any double letters, they should be treated as only letter. Thus, in the surname
	Lloyd, the second L should be disregarded in coding the Soundex. In the surname Gutierrez, the second R
	should be disregarded.    
	  
	     
     NAMES WITH LETTERS SIDE BY SIDE THAT HAVE THE SAME 
	NUMBER ON THE SOUNDEX CODING GUIDE    
   Your surname may have different letters that are side by side and have the same
	number on the Soundex Coding Guide; for example, Pf in Pfister (1 is the number for
	both P and F); CKS in Jackson (2 is the number for C, K, and S). These letters should be
	treated as one letter. Thus, in the name Pfister, F should be disregarded, giving a Soundex
	of P236. In the name Jackson, K and S should be disregarded, giving a Soundex of J250.    
	 
	     
   
	With your ancestor's name correctly coded, you are ready to use the microfilmed
	Soundex card index for census records. They are organized by state, thereunder
	by Soundex code number, thereunder alphabetically by first name or initial.  
Read my  outline  for using Soundex when accessing naturalization records.
	 
   
     
 
    
   
I would be very interested to hear from anyone with knowledge or an interest in the Miller family.  
  Moishe Miller moishe@langsam.com 
 
My home address is 
           1374 East 28th Street
           Brooklyn NY 11210-5311
           USA
 
  
  Last updated 1/2/00 
    
  </body> 