 Directions to UCI UClub and Permit Purchase<body>



 
  
 
 Parking Information and Directions to the UC Irvine  
University Club 
including  Purchasing a Parking Permit  

If this is your first visit to the UCI campus, you should be aware that
it is not easy to figure out the campus. We recommend that you get a 
 
map 
with building numbers.
  
  Please note   that the University Club 
(UClub) does have its own parking lot (18B). You do not need a permit to 
park in this lot.   However  , this lot 
is small and fills up quickly. In addition, you can only park there for 
the duration of the meeting. If you have other plans on campus, you will 
have to move your car (they   will  ticket). 

  
The directions below will take you to the UClub parking lot (18B). If 
it is full, you will need to drive to an automated permit dispenser, 
purchase a permit, park in lot 18C, and walk to the UClub.
  
 
Plan to arrive at least 30 minutes early to ensure you get a parking
space, and to allow time to purchase a permit and to walk to the 
University Club.
 

  
 
   

 From South    
Take the 405 North to the University/Jeffrey exit.   
Left onto University (it's Jeffrey if you go right).   
Left onto Culver.   
Right onto Campus.   
Left onto East Peltason Drive (was: Berkeley Dr.), which takes you into UCI.
   
   NOTE:  
As soon as you enter UCI on East Peltason, there is an automated
parking permit dispenser. If lot 18B is full, return here to purchase
your permit. ($4 - quarters or $1 bills).
 

Go through the lighted intersection at Pereira Rd.    
   NOTE:   At the second stop sign, you
will see parking lot 18C on the right. If you purchase a permit, park
here and walk along East Peltason to lot 18/18A. From there you can
easily see the UClub.
 

At the third stop sign (Los Trancos Rd.), go right into lot 18/18A.   
The UClub (yellow brick, building #32) and UClub parking lot (18B)
will be on your immediate left. No permit is needed in the UClub parking lot.
   
 
 
   
 

  From North    
Take the 405 South to the Jamboree exit.   
Right onto Jamboree.   
Left onto Campus.   
Go past   West  Peltason Drive.  

Right onto  East  Peltason Drive (was: Berkeley Dr.) which takes
you into UCI.
   
   NOTE:  
As soon as you enter UCI on East Peltason, there is an automated
parking permit dispenser. If lot 18B is full, return here to purchase
your permit. ($4 - quarters or $1 bills).
 

Go through the lighted intersection at Pereira Rd.    
   NOTE:   At the second stop sign, you
will see parking lot 18C on the right. If you purchase a permit, park
here and walk along East Peltason to lot 18/18A. From there you can
easily see the UClub.
 

At the third stop sign (Los Trancos Rd.) go right into lot 18/18A.   
The UClub (yellow brick, building #32) and UClub parking lot (18B)
will be on your immediate left. No permit is needed in the UClub parking lot.
   
 
 
 Back to IRUS home page 

  
   
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Department of Information and Computer Science   
University of California, Irvine  
Irvine, CA 92697-3425  

</body> 