 <body>
     
  
    
     
       Projects 
      
       
	 
	   Current Projects 
	 
	 
	  
	      Usable Security  The security research community has become increasingly aware that better usability is a key element to achieve better consumer security. The SCONCE Usable Security Project began in Spring 2006 to increase the usability in security software.  
	    
	      Information- and Content-Centric Networking  This project investigates a new Internet architecture called Named Data Networking (NDN). NDN capitalizes on strengths - and addresses weaknesses - of the Internet's current host-based, point-to-point communication architecture in order to naturally accommodate emerging patterns of communication.  
	  
	      Security and Privacy in Genomics  We address genomic privacy by focusing on a number of important applications: Paternity Tests, Ancestry Testing, Personalized Medicine, and Genetic Compatibility Tests. We investigate real-world practicality and usability of (as well as interest in) some proposed privacy-preserving genomic tests.  
	  
	      Remote Attestation of Embedded Devices  We stay clear of both efficient-but-limited software-based techniques and heavy-weight TPM-based approaches to attestation. We focus on the design space area that has not been previously explored by utilizing a software/hardware co-design approach to architect an attestation mechanism with minimal hardware requirements.  
	  
	      Author Attribution and Anonymization  A stylometric profile allows probabilistic linkage among reviews generated by the same person on sites as Yelp, CitySearch, UrbanSpoon and TripAdvisor. This could be used to link reviews from different accounts (within a site or across sites) operated by the same user. On one hand, tracking authors of spam reviews can be viewed as a useful service. On the other hand, the ease of highly accurate linkage between different accounts is disconcerting and ultimately detrimental to privacy. In this project, we explore and measure linkability of reviews, and develop techniques that mitigate review linkage.  
	  
	 
       
      
       
	 
	   Past Projects 
	 
	 
	
		
	  
		  Automatic Privacy Protection Program  
		
	      Security in Unattended Wireless Sensor Networks  
	  
	      Privacy in MANETs/VANETs  
	  
	      Peer Group Admission Control  
	  
	      Privacy and Security in Database-as-a-Service (DAS) Model  
	  
	      Privacy-Preserving Revocation Checking  
	  
	      SPLASH: Mobile Ad Hoc Network Security  
	  
	      Survivability Using Controlled Security Services (SUCSES)  
	  
	      Cliques and Secure Spread  
	  
	      Secure Storage Area Networks  
	  
	      Privacy-Enhancing Participatory Sensing Infrastructure  
	  
	 
       
      
     
    
   

  </body> 