 computing support @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>

 Skip over navigation 

 
This site will look much better in a browser that supports  web standards , but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device.
 

 

	 
	 
	
	  
    university of california, irvine  
 	 

	  
    donald bren school of information and computer sciences  
 	 
	
	 

				
			   » About 
					   » About the Bren gift  
						  » Dean's welcome  
						  » Annual report  
						  » Bren School Intranet  
						  » Facts and figures  
						  » Donald Bren Hall  
						  » Find faculty and staff  
						  » Contact us  
						  » Multimedia library  
						  » Visit the Bren School  
					
					
					  
				
				  » Departments 
					   » Computer Science  
						  » Informatics  
						  » Statistics  
					  
				
				  » Faculty 
					   » Research areas  
						  » Research centers  
						  » Research highlights  
					  
				
				  » Undergraduate 
					   » Apply  
						  » Contact a counselor  
						  » Course listings  
						  » Degrees  
						  » Distribution center  
						  » Financial aid  
						  » FAQ  
						  » Honors program  
						  » Housing  
						  » ics.jobs  
						  » Policies  
						  » Student life  
						  » Computing support  
						  » Transfer students  
						  » Why the Bren School  
					  

				  » Graduate 
					   » Apply  
						  » Degrees  
						  » Study in Italy  
						  » Courses  
						  » FAQ  
						  » Research areas  
						  » Financial aid  

						  » Policies &amp; forms  
						  » Contact a counselor  
						  » Graduate housing  
						  » Computing support  
						  » Visit the Bren School  
					  

				  » Community 
					   » Alumni  
						  » Friends  
						  » Parents  
						  » News and events  
						  » Give a gift  
					  

				  » Employment 
					   » Distinguished professors  
						  » Faculty positions  
						  » Lecturer positions  
						  » Research positions  
						  » Student/alumni job board  
						  » Staff positions  
					  
				
					

			 
	

		
	
	 
	



  



		  

        	  

	    
 School of ICS Password and Unix Shell Management     
Users can use this website to change their ICS accounts password and modify their Unix (Solaris and Linux) Shell.   We continue to improve the ICS user authentication infrastructure with the addition of LDAP and Active Directory.  This site replaces the antiquated and unnecessarily complicated methods of managing distinct passwords on both the Unix and the Windows platforms.  Any ICS user can use this website from any UCI campus computer or a computer connected through the VPN.   If you have any questions about this form please send email to   helpdesk@ics.uci.edu         
   
 Change Password  Directions:  
Use this section of this form to changed your passwords.  
This form will change both your Windows and Unix (Unix login and email). 
  Fill in the form below.  
  Current Password will be the password you use to access email.
  Alternatively to have your password reset, enter your student of staff id.
    If you are having your password reset, please see the lab attendant 
in the CS 364 openlab before beginning.      Click the Modify button immediately below .         
 When selecting your new password please makes sure that it meets the following crieria:  Your password must be 8 characters minimum in length  You password must contain one character from all four characters sets  Lower case alphabetic [a-z]  Upper case alphabetic [A-Z]  Number[0-9]  Symbol [?!@#$%$^&amp;()]  Your password may not contain the following symbol: *    Your passward cannot contain any portion of your username  Your password should not be based on a dictionary word.         
Username  
    
Current (email) Password or Student ID  
    
New Password  
    
New Password Again  
    
  
       
   
 Change Unix (Solaris and Linux) Shell Directions:  Use this section of this form to modify your Unix Shell.     Fill in the fields below, using your email password as your current password.    Select a valid shell from the drop down list (we recommend tcsh or zsh).    Click the modify button below         
Username  
    
Password  
    
Unix Shell  
    
  
      


		 		
			
			
		 	
							
				
			 More computing support » 
				   Labs  
				  Unix support  
				  Windows support  
				  Network support  
				  Mac support  
				  Faculty/staff information  
				  Student information  
				  
	
	 		




 

		      UC copyright  |  UCI directory  |  Intranet  |  Site Map  |  icswebmaster@ics.uci.edu  | Last update: August 20 2009	

 





</body> 