 ICS TA Seminar--Winter 2005<body>
  
 
 W INTER  Q UARTER  2005
--  Information and Computer Science 
--  UC Irvine   
 
 Teaching Assistant Seminar (ICS 398A)  
 
  C OURSE  S CHEDULE
AND  I NFORMATION    
 
  Instructor:    David G. Kay ,
406B Computer Science.  Stop by any time, or send electronic mail to "   kay   ".  
 
  Meeting time and place:   Tuesdays and
Thursdays, 9:30 to 10:50 a.m., in Interim Classroom Facility 101. ICS 398A
meets during the first half of the quarter; we might also schedule one or
two overflow sessions.  
 
  Enrollment information:   All new or
prospective ICS teaching assistants are required to attend ICS 398A, which
is offered this year in the fall and winter quarters.  It's ideal to
take ICS 398 in the first quarter you're teaching, although that isn't
always possible.  
 
 ICS 398B, the Advanced TA Seminar, is offered
in the spring quarter this year.  ICS 398B covers such issues as designing
assignments, exams, and courses, assigning grades, and other issues in running
your own course; it is valuable for everyone, and required for TAs who may
wish to teach their own classes (as many grad students do in summer session
or through University Extension, not to mention in their own academic jobs).
 You don't have to take ICS 398B in Spring 2005; you may take it later
in your career, but you must complete it before you can be appointed as
an instructor in summer session or Extension.  
 
  Course requirements:   This seminar
is not designed to impose a time burden on the participants beyond the class
meetings themselves.  Grading is satisfactory/unsatisfactory or pass/not-pass,
and we ask only that you attend the meetings, participate in the discussions
and activities, give one or two short presentations on material you expect
to be teaching, and arrange through the campus  Instructional Resources Center 
(x46188) to be videotaped in your class (whichever quarter you will be teaching).  
 
  Topics to be covered:   In a seminar
like this, the topics don't all come in a predetermined order.  Over
the course of the quarter we will cover the following, and more:  motivating
students, teaching techniques and styles, grading exams and assignments,
dealing with cheating and problem students, working with faculty, departmental
and university policies.  Most of our time will be devoted to discussion
and hands-on participatory activities.  
  
  Approximate course schedule:   
       
  Week 1    
 
 6 January   
 
 Introductions and overview of university teaching  
   
  Week 2    
 
 11 January   
 
 Grading policies, practices, philosophies  
   
    
 
 13 January   
 
 TA presentations and presentation strategies  
   
  Week 3    
 
 18 January   
 
 TA presentations  
   
    
 
 20 January   
 
 TA presentations  
   
  Week 4    
 
 25 January   
 
 Exam grading  
   
    
 
 27 January   
 
 Grading students' programs and projects  
   
  Week 5    
 
 1 February   
 
 Preventing and detecting academic dishonesty  
   
    
 
 3 February   
 
 Motivation, problem students, teaching styles  
   
  Week 6    
 
 8 February   
 
 Epilogue and looking ahead
    
     Quick resource guide:   
 
 If you don't have an assigned office (or
prefer not to hold your scheduled office hours there), you may use a designated
room in the Computer Science Trailer (where the ICS Student Affairs Office
is).  Eventually workstations and a printer may be installed there, which
you may use for grading and class preparation; there is no keycard mechanism
to charge for use of this printer.  To schedule times in this room, check
with Hien Park ( hienpark@ics.uci.edu ).  
 
 For information about network-based class
support (class Email lists, home pages, rosters, and so on), see  http://eee.uci.edu .
 Within ICS, we support automatic assignment submission  via  http://checkmate.ics.uci.edu 
(have your instructor contact  checkmate@ics.uci.edu )
and automated detection of plagiarism in prose and code (see  http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/checker.html ).  
 
 For a UCInet ID (an Email account @uci.edu--you'll
need one for access to some EEE features  
and Checkmate  ), see  http://activate.uci.edu/ .
 You can redirect Email from this account to another account (@ics.uci.edu,
for example) via the web:  http://phwww.cwis.uci.edu/cgi-bin/phupdate .  
  
 
  
  
  David G. Kay ,
 406B Computer Science
   University of California, Irvine 
 
Irvine, CA  92697-3425  --   (949) 824-5072   --  Fax  (949) 824-4056 
 --  Email   
     kay@uci.edu 
    

 
 Monday, January 3, 2005 -- 2:45 PM  
</body> 