 
 


 
   
     
     
     
     
     
    <title>Finding my office 
     
       
       
     
     
     
     
   
   
     
       
         
           
               
             
               
             
               
             
    
               

      
                 

        
                   
    
 
                  
      
 
                
    
 
             
             
               
           
           
               
             
               
                 
                   Finding my office 
                 
               
             
           
           
               
             
               
                 
                       (adapted from my colleagues’   Paul   Dourish   and   Gillian  Hayes  very helpful online directions)  
                   First, follow the  campus directions  to reach UCI. You're headed for Bren Hall/CS3 (building 314, grid E6 on the map) and the closest lot is 12B. Bren Hall opened mid-2007; older campus maps won't show it. (Note: Look for Bren Hall, not the Bren Event Center, which is on the other side of campus.)   
                     
                   If you're coming from the north, your best bet is to take the 405 to the 73, then take 73 south; get off at Bison, which is the last exit before it becomes a toll road. At the top of the off-ramp, take a left onto Bison. Follow Bison onto the campus, and take the second right onto East Peltason. The entrance to lot 12B the first left turn after Bison, just after you crest the hill (there's a left-turn lane, but no light or stop sign.)   
                     
                   If you're coming from the south on the 73, get off at the Bison exit, and take a right onto Bison and onto the campus, then follow the directions above.   
                     
                   If you're coming from the south on the 405, then get off at Culver. Turn left onto Culver and follow it until you reach Campus (after University and Harvard). Take a right onto Campus, and, at the second (I think) light, a left onto East Peltason. Follow East Peltason around to the south side of the campus; the entrance to lot 12B will be on your right after a stop sign at Los Trancos.   
                     
                   Here is the location on  Google Maps .  
                     
                   You'll need to get a parking permit. You can pick one up from the any of the parking structures. If I've arranged a permit for you, then you should just be able to give your name and they'll give you one. The closest parking structure is the &quot;Engineering Parking Structure&quot; on East Peltason between Gabrielino and Anteater (marked ICS/ENG on the campus map, E7). The map shows the entrance at Gabrielino, but you can also enter at Anteater. So, if you're coming from Bison, you pass lot 12B, pick up your permit from the structure, and then double back.   
                     
                   Be sure to get a &quot;reserved&quot; parking permit, which will allow you to park in spaces marked &quot;AR&quot;; lot 12B requires AR permits. Park in lot 12B, and walk towards the bottom right corner (reckoning from the entrance.) Turn right to walk along the footpath (the &quot;ring mall&quot;).   
                     
                   Bren Hall is next to the new Engineering building that looks just like it and has a coffee kiosk between them.  The building is shaped in an L facing that kiosk. The entrance to the building is at the inside of the L. As you come past the first wing of the building, you should turn right. The entrance to the building is a door at the base of this stairway. Go through the doorway and into the lobby on the right. Turn left to find the elevators (they will be on the left again) and take one to the fifth floor.   
                     
                   Turn right on exiting the elevator (it's the only way to go) and then immediate left down the corridor. You will see an open room with plants in it. That is the &quot;Technology Garden.&quot; When you reach it, take a left and follow the corridor; I am on the right towards the end (5074).   
                 
               
             
            


             
               
                 
                   Copyright 2016: Melissa Mazmanian 
                 
               
             
               
           
           
               
           
         
       
     
  </body>
 


