 Chimera 2 - Testing the installation...<body>

  Testing the installation...  

 
This section describes a brief way to test out the Chimera 2.0 servers.

 

 Preparing the Chimera 2.0 website 

  Create a directory named  chimera  under the namespace of a
local WWW server. (For the test, any directory will do, if a WWW server
is not immediately available.)
  Create a set of directories within the directory. Each directory
represents a distinct Chimera 2.0 hyperweb. Directories within
directories are considered subwebs of the parent hyperweb. For example
create the directories  web1, web1/web1.1, web2, web2/web2.1,web2/web2.2,
web3, web3/web3.1, web3/web3.1/web3.1.1, etc.  You can also give
these hyperwebs more meaningful names.
   Launching the Hyperweb Manager 

  Change to the  chimera  directory created above.
  Launch the Hyperweb Manager with the command
 
 java -Dchimera.hyperwebmanager.java=/opt/jdk-1.1.2/bin/java
chimera.hyperwebManager -gui http://pyramides.ics.uci.edu/chimera/ 
 
  You will need to modify the path for the java 1.1.x interpretor and the
machine name of the URL to match your local configuration.
   The hyperweb manager's main window will soon appear, followed by the
hyperweb server and Chimera server. (The hyperweb manager automatically
launches a hyperweb server on start-up. When you shut
the hyperweb manager down, it will automatically shut this other server
down as well.) 

 Launching the Chimera Server 

  Launch the Chimera server with the command
 
 java chimera.chimeraServer
  
  Select the  Servers  panel of the Chimera server.
  Select the name of the machine listed in the panel. (It should be the
name of the machine you are running these servers on.) If no names are
listed in the panel, type the name of the machine in the text edit
field located at the bottom of the panel and hit return. This will add
the name to the list. Once added, the machine name can be selected.
  The Chimera server will request the webs for the selected hyperweb
manager's website and display them within the  Webs  panel.
  Select a web, and the Chimera server will take you to the
 Links  panel.
  Try creating a few links.
  Shut the hyperweb manager down and relaunch it.
  Verify that the links you created persisted between sessions.
  Finally, launch a WWW browser. Enter the following URL:
 
http://pyramides.ics.uci.edu:4009/hyperwebs/
 
  You will need to change the name of the machine listed in the URL to
match your local configuration. The hyperweb manager has a dedicated port
number of 4009. This number is registered with the Internet
Assigned-Numbers Authority.
  The hyperweb manager will respond by generated an HTML page describing
the Chimera 2.0 website.
   Where to go from here? 

 
The Chimera 2.0 release does not come with any integrated clients, so
the next step after these tests would be to look at the API to the
Chimera server. This API is used to develop Chimera clients. Stay tuned to
the  What's New  page for information
about upcoming example clients and a Chimera 2.0 tutorial. 
 

     

  This page is part of the  Chimera 
web site. 
Send feedback and questions to  Ken
Anderson . 
 </body> 