 TIPPERS  <body>

    
     
            
             
                
                 TIPPERS 
             
            
             
                  
                         About 
                     
                     
                         Applications 
                     
                     
                         Research 
                     
                     
                         Team 
                     
                  
            
         
        
      
     
         

             
                 
                     
                         TIPPERS 
                         Testbed for IoT-based Privacy-Preserving PERvasive Spaces 
                           
                                     About  
                             
                             
                                     Applications  
                             
                             
                                     Research  
                             
							 
                                     Team  
                             
                          
                 
             

         
        

     
    

    




         
          
         
             
                 
                       
                     About 
                     TIPPERS (Testbed for IoT-based Privacy-Preserving PERvasive Spaces) is a project being developed by a team from the  University of California, Irvine (UCI)   in collaboration with  Honeywell . Our goal is  to create a robust experimental testbed for real-world deployment, testing, and evaluation of a variety of privacy technologies in  Internet of Things  scenarios. 
                     
                           IoT Testbed (TIPPERS) with capabilities to embed and test various privacy technologies 
                             IoT applications and use case scenarios that expose privacy challenges, provide context to test validate privacy technologies, and to study privacy/utility tradeoffs 
                             Detailed system and activity logs to help understand potential privacy breaches, and validate technology using privacy metrics. 
                          
             

             
                 
                     Brandeis Team 
					 
                        TIPPERS is part of the  Brandeis DARPA program  which seeks to develop the technical means to protect the private and proprietary information of individuals and enterprises.
					 
					 
                      
                             
                              
                         
                         
                             
                              
                         
                         
                             
                              
                         
                         
                             
                              
                         
                         
                             
                              
                         
                         
                             
                              
                         
                         
                             
                              
                         
                         
                             
                              
                         
                         
                             
                              
                         
                         
                             
                              
                         
                      
				 
			 
         
        


      

     
          
         
             
                 
                       
                     T-Panel 
                     T-Panel is a demonstration system from which users can get useful information about sensing sub-systems in TIPPERS. Sensing sub-systems are the fundamental parts for TIPPERS. The data about people and space are collected by these sub-systems and sent to TIPPERS for further analysis. T-Panel helps researcher and developer understand the sensing systems by introducing each sensing sub-system in detail. 
                        Introduces basic setting of all sensing sub-systems. For example, sensor type, the amount of sensors, data rate and etc. 
                    	 Displays the live data feeds from all available sensing sub-systems for authentificated users 
                    	 Demontrates some example analysis that shows the features of the data 
                    	 Shows the possible privacy concerns that are exposed by certain types of data 
                      
                        You can find out more   here  
                     
                      You can try the private T-Panel demo  here 
                     

                 
                 
                             
             

         
        

     
    

     
          
         

             
                 
                       
                     Concierge  
                     
                        Concierge is a smart building assistant that helps visitors and residents in answering questions like "Where is professor Sharad?","Where are the restrooms", "Where is the CS seminar taking place?". In addition to these functionalities, Concierge also lets users to take control over which information would be visible to others. Some of the interesting features of Concierge are as follows:
                     
                      
                            Navigate though the building using an interactive map. Once a room is selected, this will show room description. 
                         
                         
                            Control the disclosure of entities to only trusted parties. Each room or space can have a policy associated with respect to a user or a group of users. Certain users will be able to see current occupancy of a room or some aggregated values of such information
                         
                         
                            Locate a person inside a building. Through policy interface, users can control the disclosure of locations to only trusted parties.
                         
                         
                            Keep track of events in the Donald Bren Hall building. TIPPERS maintains ICS event calendar for the users. Public event will be displayed to visitors. Private meeting will not be open to public.
                         
                         
                            Set up a meeting in a smart meeting room. The meeting will have policies associated with it regarding the data collection. Participants of the meeting will be able to change such policies of the meeting according to their preferences.
                         
                       You can download the APK for Concierge  here 
                  
                 
                              
             

         
        

     
    

     
          
         

             
                 
                       
                     T-Board  
                     Portal is a smart dashboard for users and building administrators to monitor energy usage and presence information in the building spaces.   
                     
                        You can try the T-Board demo    here  
                  
                 
                         
             
         
        
         
          
         

             
                 
                       
                     TIPPERS PC  
                     Tippers PC collects PC status data such as usage of memory, cpu, and idleness. Once a user turns on tracking feature, it will show your status as ONLINE (300s). Any mouse or keyboard activity will clear the time counter. Memory and CPU usage will be displayed out of 100%. 

                       You need Java in your computer. If you don't have one, please follow this link.  here   
                    
                       You can download the execution file for PC data collection for Windows  here 
                       You can download the jar file for PC data collection for Mac  here 
                       Please refer to the instruction file  here 
                        
                   
                 
                         
             

         
        

     
    
        
     
          
         
             
                 
                       
                     Research 
                     You can read all the publications and presentations from here. 
                    
					 
						
						 Publications 
	
						 
							   S. Mehrotra, A. Kobsa, N. Venkatasubramanian, S. R. Rajagopalan.  TIPPERS: A Privacy Cognizant IoT Environment . 1st IEEE International Workshop on Security, Privacy and Trust for IoT, Sydney, Australia. DOI 10.1109/PERCOMW.2016.7457158 
								 P. Jain, S. S. Khanwalkar, R. Malhotra, A. Dheenrajappa, G. Gupta, A. Kobsa.  uBeacon: Configuration based Beacon Tracking . 2016 IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communications (PerCom). Work in Progress Session, Sydney, Australia. DOI 10.1109/PERCOMW.2016.7457066 
								 S. Doudalis, S. Mehrotra, A. Machanavajjhala, and S. Haney. Releasing True Data with Formal Privacy Guarantees. 3rd Privacy Preserving IR Workshop (PIR 2016) at SIGIR 2016. 
							  
					
					 
						
						 Presentations and Slides 
	
						 
							   April 2016 - IP Meeting at UCI -  (slides)   (video)  
							  
					
					 
						
						 Other 
	
						 
							     Brandeis Wiki (password protected)  
							   

                 
             

         

     
	
     
          
         
             
                 
                       
                     Team 

					 Professors 
                
					 
						 
								   Prof. Sharad Mehrotra  
						 
					 
					
					 
						 
								   Prof. Alfred Kobsa  
						 
					 
					
					 
						 
								   Prof. Nalini Venkatasubramanium  
						 
					 
					  
            
 
					 Post-Doctoral Fellows 
					
					 
						 
								   Dr. Roberto Yus  
						 
					 

					 
						 
								   Dr. Sergio Gago  
						 
					 
					  

				  Graduate Students 
					
					 
						 
								   Primal Pappachan  
						 
					 
					
					 
						 
								   Eun-Jeong Shin  
						 
					 
					
					 
						 
								   Dhrubajyoti Ghosh  
						 
					 
					
					 
						 
								   Mamadou Diallo  
						 
					 
					
					 
                        			 
                                				   Guoxi Wang  
                        			 
                    			 
					
					  

                  Undergraduate Students  

                 
                     
                               Kevin Chen  
                     
                 
                
                 
                     
                               Chia Liang Huang  
                     
                 
                
                 
                     
                               Karthik Gajulapalli  
                     
                 

                  


                 
             
         
	 
             
	
    
     
             
                 
                      
                             Home 
                         
                         ⋅ 
                         
                             About 
                         
                         ⋅ 
                         
                             Applications 
                         
                         ⋅ 
                         
                             Team 
                         
                          ⋅ 
                         
                             Research 
                          
                      Copyright © University of California Irvine 2016. All Rights Reserved 
                 
             
         
    </body> 