 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  April 10,  2003
</strong>
 
     New University 
      
         UCI Researchers Develop New Program for SARS Detection</strong>
           By Charlene Manalo</strong>
                  Researchers at UC Irvine are currently working around the clock to create a diagnostic test for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS. 
  
Luis Villarreal, director of UCI’s Center for Virus Research, is currently collaborating with Gregory Weiss from the UCI Department of chemistry and Richard Lathrop from the School of ICS to create a diagnostic test to allow hospitals to test for SARS. 
  
Typically, it can take months to create an antibody to detect the SARS virus in patients. However, with the new technology, these researchers have accomplished creating a reagent or chemical substance to detect the virus. 
  
For the past two years, Villarreal has been involved in a program that tackles the issues of rapid response to bioterrorist agents. 
  
The program allows researchers to sequence a genome in order to find one specifically identical to that of the SARS virus. By finding this genome, researchers can detect the disease and mobilize finding a cure. 
  
“We have been developing a system to respond to small pox and anthrax,” Villarreal said. “Responding to emerging diseases such as SARS is identical to responding to a bioterrorist attack in which they resemble a sudden appearance of an agent spreading in a population.” 
  
According to Villarreal, they started sequencing the SARS virus’ DNA a week ago. With 50 computers working for 40 hours, they have already created the first set of synthetic genes. 
  
Researchers are currently working on modifying these genes, so that they can be “optimized” to make future research on these genes easier. 
  
“We modify the genes to be codon optimized to be efficient to be used with other research from diagnostics to therapeutics. Vaccines are based on the genes,” Villareal said. 
  
According to Gregory Weiss and Philip Felgner, another UCI professor is working on a research that involves diverting DNA into proteins. Felgner will then take the sequenced gene from Villarreal and turn it into the proteins associated with the SARS virus. Afterwards, Weiss will be using shotgun scanning technology to interpret the details of the protein interaction of the SARS virus 
  
“Our laboratory has a large collection of potential keys that can fit into the SARS proteins,” Weiss said. “Currently we are using this collection of keys to see if one of them fits into the SARS proteins.” 
  
“These keys can be the potential reagent used to detect the SARS virus,” Weiss said. “It could normally take months or years to be able to detect these protein interactions but with molecular recognition technology we can be able to do it in weeks.” 
  
These keys are proteins and peptides that interlock with SARS proteins so that researchers can identify them. This identification can be further used by physicians to diagnose the SARS disease by creating a reagent. 
  
Weiss was pleased that his lab set up shifts to be able to work 24 hours a day. If the protein is detected, they plan on having the reagent available to the public. 
  
“Once we come up with something that binds to the protein, we will be contacting a manufacturing facility for testing,” Weiss said. 
  
Lathrop is also involved in creating the software that was used in the project. 
  
“This does really reflect the capacity and skills at UC Irvine. This research is a confluence of ICS, chemistry and molecular biology,” Villarreal said. 
  
The UCI-based center is the only center in California that has an emphasis in virology and pathogenesis. The purpose of the center is to develop interactions between faculty that utilizes virus-based technology to study virus mechanisms to build a strong base for virology. This includes devising new innovations to mobilize research regarding viruses and ailments caused by pathogens such as SARS. 
  
The SARS virus has afflicted a number of countries worldwide. According to the World Health Organization, the SARS death toll is currently 293 worldwide with a fatality rate rising to 6 percent.
                      UCI Researchers Develop New Program for SARS Detection    
                Next &gt; 
                 NSF awards $12.5M for first responders
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 