 COVERT: Compositional Analysis of Android Inter-App Permission Leakage - TSE 2015 - Software Engineering and Analysis Lab (SEAL) 
 
	
	 
			  Software Engineering and Analysis Lab (SEAL)  

			 
				 Search 
			 

			
				 Skip to content 
				    About SEAL  
  Members  
  Publications  
  Research Projects  
  Tools  
  Blog  
  			 

		 
			 
				
				 
					 Search for: 
					 
							 
		 
	 

	 
		 
			
 
	  

	
	 
			  News  
		 
		 COVERT: Compositional Analysis of Android Inter-App Permission Leakage — TSE 2015 
		 
			 
				 Image 
			 

			  June 21, 2015      Sam   
			
					 
	 
		 Android is the most popular platform for mobile devices. It facilitates sharing of data and services among applications using a rich inter-app communication system. While access to resources can be controlled by the Android permission system, enforcing permissions is not sufficient to prevent security violations, as permissions may be mismanaged, intentionally or unintentionally. Android’s enforcement of the permissions is at the level of individual apps, allowing multiple malicious apps to collude and combine their permissions or to trick vulnerable apps to perform actions on their behalf that are beyond their individual privileges. In this paper, we present COVERT, a tool for compositional analysis of Android inter-app vulnerabilities. COVERT’s analysis is modular to enable incremental analysis of applications as they are installed, updated, and removed. It statically analyzes the reverse engineered source code of each individual app, and extracts relevant security specifications in a format suitable for formal verification. Given a collection of specifications extracted in this way, a formal analysis engine (e.g., model checker) is then used to verify whether it is safe for a combination of applications—holding certain permissions and potentially interacting with each other—to be installed together. Our experience with using COVERT %running Covert on over 200 real-world apps, to examine over 500 real-world apps %against one of the most signification Android inter-app vulnerabilities, i.e. privilege escalation, corroborates its ability to find inter-app vulnerabilities in bundles of some of the most popular apps on the market. 
	 

	  featured   Post navigation 
		 
			  Previous Post Riyadh defended his PhD thesis   Next Post Detection of Design Flaws in the Android Permission Protocol through Bounded Verification — FM 2015 		 
	 
	 

 
			 Recent News 		  
				 HaCkEd By RxR HaCkEr 
							 June 13, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Nariman Mirzaei defended his PhD thesis 
							 June 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Reyhaneh Jabbarvand advanced to candidacy 
							 May 27, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Practical, Formal Synthesis and Automatic Enforcement of Security Policies for Android — DSN 2016 
							 May 6, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Eric Yuan defended his PhD thesis 
							 May 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Ehsan Kouroshfar defended his PhD thesis 
							 May 4, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Energy-Aware Test-Suite Minimization for Android Apps — ISSTA 2016 
							 April 18, 2016 
						 
					 
				 Reducing Combinatorics in GUI Testing of Android Applications — ICSE 2016 
							 December 20, 2015 
						 
					 
				 Move to UC Irvine 
							 July 1, 2015 
						 
					 
				 Detection of Design Flaws in the Android Permission Protocol through Bounded Verification — FM 2015 
							 June 24, 2015 
						 
				  
 
		 University of California, Irvine 
	
		 
		   
		
				 
					 Search for: 
					 
				 
	 

		 

		 
								 Proudly powered by WordPress 
			 
		 

	</body> 