 
	andre – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
		
 	   	  		 Author Archive 
 	  
				 
				  Congrats Dr. Nick Lopez  

				 
                	 December 5, 2014   Congrats are in order to Nick Lopez, who just finished defending his Ph.D. dissertation on the impact of non-determinism of LDA in software engineering! Afterwards, there was a post-defense celebratory lunch! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Congrats Dr. Nick Lopez    

			 

				 
				  Nick dissertation award!  

				 
                	 November 20, 2014   Nick Mangano receives his ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Dissertation Award at FSE 2014 in Hong Kong, and is supported by Lee and Thomas who are both there as well to present at the Context workshop. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Nick dissertation award!    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Mengyao and John  

				 
                	 February 3, 2014   Mengyao is a first year Ph.D. student in Informatics. She is interested in doing research in design practice, more specifically the creative nature of it. John is a first year M.S. student in Computer Science. He is interested in doing research in software architecture, particularly the field of software as a service (SaaS). Welcome! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Mengyao and John    

			 

				 
				  Congrats Dr. Nick!  

				 
                	 September 18, 2013   Congratulations to Nick Mangano, who successfully defended his Ph.D. dissertation entitled ‘Calico: an early-phase software design tool’ on September 18, with a committee of Gary Olson, David Redmiles, and Marian Petre (in addition to his advisor, of course). After 6 years of very hard work, Nick is now off to make a commercial version of […] 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Congrats Dr. Nick!    

			 

				 
				  ICSE 2013  

				 
                	 May 24, 2013   Six members of the SDCL, Gerald Bortis, Lee Martie, Christian Adriano, Nicolas Lopez, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek, as well as one of our alumni, Alfredo Motta, attended ICSE 2013. We presented papers and posters in a variety of the tracks and subevents, and had great conversations with our colleagues. 
				 

				   Posted in   Travel  |     Comments Off  on ICSE 2013    

			 

				 
				  Lionel Briand visit  

				 
                	 May 17, 2013   Lionel Briand visited the SDCL as part of his visit as an ISR Distinguished Speaker. Once more, we had great interactions and discussions about our research. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Lionel Briand visit    

			 

				 
				  Jane Cleland-Huang visit  

				 
                	 April 19, 2013   Another ISR Distinguished Speaker, another visitor to the SDCL. Jane Cleland-Huang from DePaul University visited our lab. She provided some great feedback on our research! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Jane Cleland-Huang visit    

			 

				 
				  Arie van Deursen visit  

				 
                	 March 14, 2013   We had a great time hosting Arie van Deursen from TU Delft in the Netherlands. We had a long demo session during which we provided us with some great feedback, and he gave a great talk as part of the ISR Distinguished Speaker series. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Arie van Deursen visit    

			 

				 
				  Michele thanks  

				 
                	 December 25, 2012   Michele Bonazza is now back in Italy to complete his Ph.D. program there. Time has gone very fast and we have had a great time. Look toward CaliSmall, a standalone adaptation of Calico for Android tablets, to hopefully appear in the Google Play store soon… 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Michele thanks    

			 

				 
				  Marian Petre visit  

				 
                	 December 12, 2012   Our long-term collaborator Marian Petre from The Open University visited us for this week, working on finalizing a book to be published out of the SPSD 2010 workshop (it is almost done!), and providing us with feedback on Nick Mangano’s work on analyzing sketches on whiteboards. Her insights are always much appreciated and we already […] 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Marian Petre visit    

			 

		        
		         
              
              Next Page »  
              
         
                
	 
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 