 ICS 4 Course Reference<body>
  Winter 2013
 —  Informatics Department   —   Bren School of ICS  —  UC Irvine  
 ICS 4: Human Factors for the Web 
Course Reference 
 
   Instructor:    David G. Kay ,
5056 Donald Bren Hall (DBH) (  kay@uci.edu  ). TAs: Yubo Kou (  yubok@uci.edu  ) and Pramit Choudhary (  pchoudha@uci.edu  ) 
  Quick links: 
Slides  (all)  
 (6/pg) 

   Textbook 
   Assignments 
   Winter '12 Midterm  
   Email Q&amp;A (private) 
   Piazza Q&amp;A (public) 
   Email archive   References  
  Course goals:  Each of you is a consumer of web pages and services. Most of you are creators of web content in some form. Many of you will enter careers where you will specify or manage the presentation of information on the web. Yet few people have a concrete understanding of what makes some web sites more successful than 
others—more navigable, more comprehensible, easier to develop and maintain, less frustrating, less error-prone. This course will focus on the principles of human-computer interaction (HCI) as they apply to the design, development, and evaluation of web sites. 
 This course is not a course in implementation tools or skills. If you know how to use Dreamweaver or HTML, that's great, but it's not expected or required for your work in this class. We will concentrate on usability—how to evaluate the effectiveness of web sites and how to design them to be more effective. This is what you need to do (and what too many websites neglect)  before  you start writing HTML. 
  Prerequisite courses and concepts: 
 This course was designed for majors outside of the School of Information and Computer Sciences; it has no academic prerequisites. We do expect each student to be able to write clear, cogent,
grammatical English;  much of the work
in this course will involve describing and justifying the design decisions
and evaluation judgements you make.  We also expect you to have these basic
computing skills:  Searching and browsing the Web, reading and sending Email,
downloading files, viewing and printing PDF (Adobe Acrobat) documents, and
creating or saving documents for Email and other purposes in plain (ASCII)
text form (not HTML or Word attachments). If you need to brush up on any of these, let us know and we'll help.  
 
 Curricular connections:</strong> This course satisfies General Education category II (Science and Technology). If you're a major in the School of ICS (ICS, CS, CSE, BIM, Informatics) you should strongly consider taking Informatics 131 instead of this course, because Informatics 131 covers the field of HCI more broadly. Its prerequisite is any single course in computing (such as ICS 10 or ICS 31); it meets Tuesdays and Thurdays from 2:00 to 3:20 in room SSL 228 (and at last report there were seats available). 
  Meeting place and times:   Lecture meets
  Tuesdays and Thursdays from 11:00 to 12:20 in room 1600 DBH. 
 
 Office hours:   You are welcome to drop by my office at any time. If I'm there and not immersed in something else, I'll be glad to chat about the course or other topics. 

I will definitely be in or near
my office during these scheduled hours, when course-related matters
will have first priority:   Tuesdays from 12:30 to 1:15 and Thursdays from 2:00 to 2:30 .  Of course emergencies may come
up, but I will try to give advance notice of any change.

  I'll also be
happy to make arrangements for other times during the week; "making an appointment" is no big deal (but if you make one, don't skip it without getting in touch).  The quickest
and most effective way to reach me outside of class is by electronic mail (see below). 
 
 Questions and announcements:   You can
usually get a response to your course-related questions within a few hours
(perhaps a bit longer on the weekends) by sending electronic mail to the
address   ics4@uci.edu  . We will never intentionally ignore a message, so if you don't receive a response, write again; sometimes overactive spam filters snag a legitimate message.  Using course-specific subject lines and your UCInet Email address will help your messages get noticed.
 
 The   ics4@uci.edu   Email address is private between you and me and the TAs. We have also set up a more public discussion forum at   www.piazza.com  .  Piazza has some advantages over the typical noteboard or discussion group; we'll use it this term and analyze its usability, too. 
 
We will send official course announcements by Email
to the EEE course mailing list, so you should check your Email regularly.
 Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
has for you (your UCInet ID).  If you prefer to read your Email on another
account, you should set your UCInet account to forward your Email to your
preferred account (you can do this on the web at 
  http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html  .
 Don't let this slide; if you miss official announcements, your grade
could suffer.  This course has a home page at   http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/4/  ; an archive of official course Email is at   http://e3.uci.edu/13w/w3m3/36500  . 
 
   Textbook and course materials:   
   
Our official textbook is   User-Centered Website Development : A Human-Computer Interaction Approach,  by Dan McCracken and Rosalee Wolfe.
If you have a background in coding with HTML and CSS, you may prefer this as an alternative:    Head First Web Design   by Ethan Watrall and Jeff Siarto; it 
covers the same main concepts but with an engaging style and a focus on implementation. 
 We may assign other readings as the course goes on. 
 
 Course structure:
    Assignments  
(40% of the course grade, with later assignments generally weighted more
heavily than earlier ones)
  Class participation  (15%, including coming to class, participating in discussions and in-class activities, and being active on Piazza)
  One midterm,  given in class on Thursday, February 7 (15%)
  One final exam,  on Tuesday, March 19, from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. (30%) 
  We assign final letter grades neither on a fixed-point scale nor on a formal curve (with equal numbers of As and Fs, for example). Your scores on assignments and exams will be recorded in the EEE Gradebook, which indicates where they fall among everyone else's scores; if you find yourself consistently in the bottom quarter, check with the instructor.
 
 
We're required to say that in unusual
circumstances, these criteria could change, but we do not expect that to
happen. 
  Special needs:  Any student who feels he or she may need an accommodation due to a disability should contact the UCI Disability Services Center at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to explore the possible range of accommodations. We encourage all students having difficulty, whether or not due to a disability, to consult privately with the instructor at any time.  
 
 What you must do right now to get started
in ICS 4: 
 
— If you do not have a UCInet ID,
get one.  See   https://activate.uci.edu  .
 
— If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
UCInet account, redirect your mail at   http://www.oit.uci.edu/email/deliverypoint.html  . 
— Complete the  ICS 4 Questionnaire  at  http://eee.uci.edu/survey/ics4winter13  (by Friday afternoon of the first week). 
— Go to  checkmate.ics.uci.edu , log in with your UCInet ID, choose "Course Listing" and Winter 2013, click "Go" next to ICS 4, and then click "List me for this course." You'll submit most of your work electronically; this step is necessary to set that up. 
— Go to  www.piazza.com  and follow the steps to add yourself as a student in this course.   
— If you aren't yet officially enrolled in the course, you're welcome to wait to see if some spaces open up. We can't take more students than the room will hold (for fire safety reasons), however, and it's not likely they can find us a larger room. 
 
 Good advice and helpful hints:  
 
Check your electronic mail regularly; this
is an official channel for course announcements. When sending course-related mail, start the subject line with "ICS 4" or "Web HCI class". 
 
Attendance in class is essential; concepts
and issues that come up in class will find their way onto the exams and
class participation in various forms counts towards the course grade. 
 
Always keep your own copy of each assignment,
both electronically and on paper; if an assignment should get lost in the
shuffle (due to human or machine error), we'll expect you to be able to supply a replacement easily. 
 
If you find yourself having trouble or getting
behind, speak with the instructor.  But  never  take the shortcut
of copying someone else's work and turning it in; the consequences can
be far worse than just a low score on one assignment.  The School of ICS 
takes academic honesty very seriously; for a more complete discussion, see
the  the ICS departmental web page covering academic
honesty issues (   http://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/policies/index.php#academic_honesty   )  
 
 Approximate course outline: 
        
 Week  
 
 Date  
 
 Topic  
 
 Readings*  
         
1.  
 8  January  
 
  Introduction to the course, HCI, and definitions of usability  
 
1 
   
  
 10 January 
 — No class meeting  —  
  
    
   
2.  
 15 January 
 Overview of user-centered development 
  Human capabilities: perception, memory, attention 
    Mental models and metaphors  
 2 
   
  
 17 January 
 User analysis, task analysis, environmental analysis  
 3 
   
3.  
 22 January 
 Requirements analysis, design, and prototyping  
 7 
   
  
 24 January 
 Content organization: organizational systems and structures 
 4 
   
4.  
 29 January 
 Principles of visual organization 
 5 
   
  
 31 January 
  Web navigation strategies  
 6 
   
5.  
 5 February 
 Evaluation strategies, techniques, interpretation  
 8 
   
  
 7 February 
  Midterm</strong>  
   
   
6.  
 12 February 
 Color  
 9 
     
   14 February 
   Typography 
   10 
   7. 
   19 February 
   Multimedia 
   11 
     
   21 February 
   Information visualization 
     
   8. 
   26 February 
   Accessibility 
   12 
     
   28 February 
   Globalization 
   13 
   9. 
   5 March 
   Personalization and trust 
   14 
     
    7 March 
   — No class meeting  — 
     
   10. 
   12 march 
   Legal and social issues 
     
     
   14 March 
   Future developments 
Epilogue and review  
     
   Exam 
   19 March 
    Final Exam, </strong>Tuesday, 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.  
     
   
* Chapters shown are in the McCracken/Wolfe textbook
</body> 