 
	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                             
        	
		
		    
  
            
 
 
 
	 Calico 
	 ...an intuitive sketch-based design environment for use on touch-based devices... 
	  
	   
 
	 PorchLight 
	 ...a desktop bug tracker interface designed to support effective bug triaging... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Development 
	 ...a cloud IDE for building software with a crowd... 
	  
	   
 
	 CodeExchange 
	 ...supporting iterative internet-scale code search... 
	  
	   
 
	 Crowd Debugging 
	 How hundreds of workers can help locate faults in software?  
	  
	   
 
	 CrowdDesign 
	 ...crowd sourced software designs [...] 
	  
	   
 

             
            
             
                  Welcome 			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design. 
		              
         
                
         
			 
            	 	
			 
     
         Feb 12  12  
          Calico demo available                     
     

				
     
         A demo of Calico is now available. Please visit the  Calico research page , then scroll to the Demo section for details. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  nmangano .
          Comments Off  on Calico demo available   
         
     
  												  
     
         Feb 12  12  
          Calico @ CSCW 2012                     
     

				
     
         We’re happy to announce that our video of Calico will be showing at  CSCW  this Wednesday.  All CSCW attendees are welcome to see ours and many other wonderful research videos during the  CSCW Videos Session , which starts at 11am.  
        
           Posted in    Travel   by  nmangano .
          Comments Off  on Calico @ CSCW 2012   
         
     
  												  
     
         Dec 11  15  
          SDCL on GitHub                     
     

				
     
           
 We are pleased to announce that  Calico’s  and  Lighthouse’s  repositories have been moved to  SDCL’s new GitHub account ! 
   
    
 We are pleased to announce that Calico (http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/research/calico) and Lighthouse (http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/research/lighthouse) are now on GitHub (https://github.com/uci-sdcl/lighthouse) ! 
  
 We are pleased to announce that Calico (http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/research/calico) and Lighthouse (http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/research/lighthouse) are now on GitHub (https://github.com/uci-sdcl/lighthouse) ! 
 
        
           Posted in    News   by  lmartie .
          Comments Off  on SDCL on GitHub   
         
     
  												  
     
         Nov 11  9  
          SEWORLD @ SDCL                     
     

				
     
         The SDCL is now in charge of moderating and administrating the ACM SIGSOFT SEWORLD mailing list.  The mailing list, started over 15 years ago at the University of Colorado at Boulder, serves the Software Engineering community through the dissemination of time-sensitive information relevant to the field of software engineering research ( http://www.sigsoft.org/seworld/ ). We are very exited to be able to support the Software Engineering community in this role! 
        
           Posted in    News   by  nlopezgi .
          Comments Off  on SEWORLD @ SDCL   
         
     
  												  
     
         Oct 11  22  
          Visiting Google                     
     

				
     
         We had a fun visit to Google, discussing possible directions for Calico with some SDCL’s former members who now work there.  Thanks Ping, Chris, Eugen, and Chris! 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Visiting Google   
         
     
  												  
     
         Sep 11  21  
          Grant kickoff meeting                     
     

				
     
         We traveled to Pittsburgh for the kickoff meeting of our new grant titled  “Large-Scale Human-Centered Coordination Systems to Support Interdependent Tasks in Context” , together with members of the   CRADL group  and the   Interaction Design and Coordination Lab , visiting our partners at CMU.
		    
				   
			    
				   
			    

        
           Posted in    Travel   by  nlopezgi .
          Comments Off  on Grant kickoff meeting   
         
     
  												  
     
         Aug 11  25  
          Another NSF grant                     
     

				
     
         We are delighted to announce that the NSF has awarded the SDCL a 2011 IIS grant in support of our work on distributed collaboration; the grant is entitled “Large-Scale Human-Centered Coordination Systems to Support Interdependent Tasks in Context ” and is joint work with  Jim Herbsleb ,  Laura Dabbish , and  Linda Argote  at Carnegie Mellon University, former SDCL member  Anita Sarma  at the University of Lincoln – Nebraska, and, here at UC Irvine,  David Redmiles . 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Another NSF grant   
         
     
  												  
     
         Aug 11  22  
          New tablets!                     
     

				
     
         Our purchase of 21 new  ASUS EEE EP121 tablets  has arrived! These tablets are great, and Nick already got to try them out when the  Brea Olinda Global IT Academy  students visited our department today. 
   
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on New tablets!   
         
     
  												  
     
         Aug 11  6  
          NSF grant for Calico                     
     

				
     
         We are delighted to announce that the NSF has awarded the SDCL a 2011 CCF grant in support of our work on Calico; the grant is entitled “Software Design Sketching”. 
        
           Posted in    News   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on NSF grant for Calico   
         
     
  												  
     
         Jul 11  18  
          Microsoft Faculty Summit                     
     

				
     
         André van der Hoek is attending the  Microsoft Faculty Summit . 
        
           Posted in    Travel   by  andre .
          Comments Off  on Microsoft Faculty Summit   
         
     
  												 	    
         
          « Previous Page  
          Next Page »  
          
     
    
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			      
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 