 The Geometry Junkyard: Coloring<body>

 
   
 
  
  
Coloring
 
   Algorithms for
coloring quadtrees .
 
    Aperiodic
colored tilings , F. Gähler.
 Also
available in postscript .
 
    The chromatic number of the plane .
Gordon Royle and Ilan Vardi summarize what's known about
the famous open problem of how many colors are needed to color
the plane so that no two points at a unit distance apart get the same color.
See also
 another article  from Dave Rusin's known math pages.
 
    
 
    Coloring line arrangements .  The graphs
formed by overlaying a collection of lines require three, four, or five colors,
depending on whether one allows three or more lines to meet at a point,
and whether the lines are considered to wrap around through infinity.
 Stan Wagon
asks similar questions for unit circle arrangements .
 
     
    The
Four Color Theorem .
A new proof by Robertson, Sanders, Seymour, and Thomas.
 
    Geometric graph coloring problems 
from "Graph Coloring Problems" by Jensen and Toft.
 
      
 
    Infect .
Eric Weeks generates interesting colorings of aperiodic tilings.
 
    Plane
color .  How big can the difference between the numbers of black and
white regions in a two-colored line arrangement?
From Stan Wagon's
 PotW archive .
 
    Puzzles
by Eric Harshbarger , mostly involving colors of and mazes on
polyhedra and polyominoes.
 
    Rec.puzzles archive: coloring problems .
 
    Solution
to problem 10769 .  Apparently problems of coloring the points of a
sphere so that orthogonal points have different colors (or so that each
set of coordinate basis vectors has multiple colors) has some relevance
to quantum mechanics; see also papers
 quant-ph/9905080  and
 quant-ph/9911040 
(on coloring just the rational points on a sphere), as well as this
 four-dimensional construction 
of an odd number of basis sets in which each vector appears an even
number of times, showing that one can't color the points on a
four-sphere so that each basis set has exactly one black point.
 
    Three-color the Penrose tiling? 
Mark Bickford asks if this tiling is always three-colorable.
 Ivars
Peterson reports on a new proof  by Tom Sibley and Stan Wagon
that the rhomb version of the tiling is 3-colorable;
A proof of 3-colorability for kites and darts
was recently published by Robert Babilon 
[Discrete Mathematics 235(1-3):137-143, May 2001].
This is closely related to my page on  line
arrangement coloring , since every Penrose tiling is dual to
a "multigrid", which is just an arrangement of lines in parallel families.
But my page only deals with finite arrangements, while Penrose tilings are
infinite.
 
    Three
nice pentomino coloring problems , Owen Muniz.
 
     
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  Send email  if you
know of an appropriate page not listed here.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 