 Welcome to IWIA'00 <body> 
 
  
International Workshop on Innovative Architecture for Future  
     Generation High-Performance Processors and Systems
  
 


	Date: January 18-19, 2001  
	Place: Maui, Hawaii  
	Location:   Maui High Performance Computing Center      
Sponsored by  
DARPA ITO PAC/C Program  
Maui High Performance Computing Center
 
 

     Program Committee    
    
	   
	Prof. Makato Amamiya, Kyushu U, Japan   
	Prof. Dennis Gannon, Indiana   
	Dr. John Fu, Compaq   
	Dr. Robert Graybill, DARPA   
	Prof. Hironori Kasahara, Waseda U, Japan   
	Prof. Yale Patt, UT Austin       

      
	   
	Prof. Masaaki Shimasaki, Kyoto U, Japan  
	Prof. Guri Sohi, Wisconsin  
	Prof. Keiji Tani, Earth Simulator, Japan  
	Prof. Mateo Valero, UPC Spain  
	Prof. Alex Veidenbaum, UC Irvine  
	Prof. K. Joe, Nara Women's Univ., Japan  
	Prof. Brian Smith, UNM/MHPCC      
    
    
Local Arrangements Chair: TBA
 
  
  Workshop description       Submission        Participants        Local Arrangements      Preliminary Program   
    

         Description       
 
This invited workshop aims to bring together researchers and designers
from academia and industry to discuss directions in the development
of high-performance, parallel, distributed, and multimedia processors and
systems.  The workshop invitees are computer architects and compiler,
operating system, and application experts. The main goal of the workshop
is to discuss future trends in the development of architecture and
software systems and to explore the assumptions made by the architects  
about software systems and by software writers about architecture.
The increased complexity in each of these areas calls for increased
interaction with researchers from all of the other disciplines to accurately
assess the potential directions and future trends in architecture and systems.
 
 
The main themes of the workshop are software- and technology-driven and
constrained new architectures, compiler/architecture interaction and codesign,
and application requirements and characteristics.  Both numerical
and non-numerical applications, such as database, data mining,
Web- and Java-based, and (high-performance) embedded applications, are of interest.
In all cases a longer-term view and assessment of the future is of most interest.
 
 
This year's special focus is power-aware memory hierarchy.  Today both high-performance
and embedded processors and systems are concerned with power dissipation. Memory   
hierarchy is one of the major sources of on-chip and system power consumption. Until
recently this concern was primarily addressed via technology and circuit design.  An
important and interesting issue is whether (micro)architectural innovation and compiler
support can make significant contributions to reducing the power dissipation.
 
Workshop topics of  interest will deal with this issue and include but are not limited to:
 
   Cache organizations that reduce power consumption
   Use of adaptive techniques in the hierarchy to reduce power consumption
   Power-performance trade-offs in the memory hierarchy
   Compiler techniques to manage the hierarchy to reduce power consumption
   Modeling, benchmarking, performance and power consumption evaluation 
   Other microarchtecture and compiler techniques for reducing power consumption 
   
Additional workshop areas of interest include the perennial favorites below,
but preference will be given to submissions on the above-mentioned topics.
 
   Processor design     Single-chip multiprocessors, multi-chip servers and large-scale multiprocessors     Memory technology and system organization     Systems On a Chip (SOC)     Architecture-compiler interaction and optimization     Applications and there performance 
   
The workshop will consist of sessions combining individual presentations 
with discussion.  Presentations will be limited to ~20 min to provide sufficient
time for discussion.  An ideal presentation will concentrate on trends and future
directions in addition to recently obtained results.  Speculation is encouraged.
 
 
  Workshop participation is capped at 25 invitees.      


          
  Submission and Publication   
 
   The invitees wishing to make a presentation should submit
   an extended abstract, up to 3 pages, by 1/6/01.
   Submissions should be electronic in postscript  or pdf format.
   The abstracts will be reviewed and printed in the on-site proceedigns.
 

 
The final proceedings consisting of
full papers will be published by IEEE Computer Society Press after the meeting.
The papers will undergo an additional review process and be selected for
publication in the post-proceedings.  Papers will be due by ~April 1st 2001.
 
The following set of LaTex    macros   should be used
in preparing the final paper.
Additional publication instructions will be made available at a later date.  
 


       Participants       
       USA    
    
	   
To be announced
             
        
	   
To be announced
             
 
           </body> 