 Network Working Group                             J. Stracke, eCal Corp.
INTERNET DRAFT

Expires April, 2000                                      August 10, 1999

          WebDAV PROPFIND Extension To List Specified Namespaces

1 Status of this Document

   This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with 
   all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering 
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other
   groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any 
   time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference 
   material or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
   

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
   

   Distribution of this document is unlimited. Please send comments to 
   francis@ecal.com or to the w3c-dist-auth@w3.org discussion list.

2 Abstract

   This document specifies an extension to the [WEBDAV] PROPFIND method 
   to permit a WebDAV client to request all properties which belong to a
   specified namespace or namespaces.

3 Introduction

   This document specifies an extension to the [WEBDAV] PROPFIND method 
   to permit a WebDAV client to request all properties which belong to a
   specified namespace or namespaces.

   A WebDAV application using a custom namespace for 
   application-specific data may occasionally need to use PROPFIND to 
   list all a resource's properties from that namespace. (Similarly, a 
   WebDAV client might need to know all DAV: properties, but not care 
   about non-standard properties.) In such a case, the client must 
   choose between the  element, which will retrieve all 
   properties on the resource, and the  element, which will 
   retrieve specified properties only. The problem with  is 
   that the resource may have many properties from other namespaces, in 
   which the application is not interested. The problem with  is 
   that the client may not know all the property names which may be 
   present (for example, if the client is too general-purpose to permit 
   it to be configured with the list of property names, or if property 
   name munging is being used). A third choice would be to use 

Stracke                                                       [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT       WebDAV PROPFIND Namespace List      August 10, 1999

    to list all the resource's properties without their 
   contents, then use  with just the properties in the desired 
   namespace; the problem with this approach is that it requires an 
   extra HTTP request.

   This document proposes a middle ground, an extension to  and
    which provides a list of namespaces to search.

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", 
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this 
   document are to be interpreted as described in [MUSTS] .

4 Extension definition

   Two new XML elements are proposed,  and . In 
   the idiom of [WEBDAV]:

4.1 namespaces XML Element

   Name: namespaces

   Namespace: DAV:

   Purpose: The namespaces XML element specifies that the enclosing 
   allprop or propname element applies only to properties belonging to 
   the namespaces listed in the enclosed namespace elements.

4.2 namespace XML Element

   Name: namespace

   Namespace: DAV:

   Purpose: The namespace XML element specifies a namespace in the 
   namespaces list.  appears inside , and has a 
   single attribute, uri, the URI of the namespace.

5 Examples

5.1 Fetching all DAV: properties

   Request:
         PROPFIND /index.html HTTP/1.1
         Host: www.example.com
         Content-Length: xxxx
         Content-Type: text/xml

         

Stracke                                                 [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT       WebDAV PROPFIND Namespace List      August 10, 1999

         


   Response:
         HTTP/1.1 200 OK
         Content-Type: text/xml
         Content-Length: xxxx

         1999-08-11T12:12:12ZExample.com, The Fictious Site!17text/htmlxyzzy1999-08-11T12:12:14Z


5.2 Listing names of properties in two namespaces

   Request:
         PROPFIND /index.html HTTP/1.1
         Host: www.example.com
         Content-Length: xxxx
         Content-Type: text/xml

         


   Response:
          