 Changing the System:  Editing the Promotion Piece<body>
  Spring 2013 —  UC Irvine  —  Information &amp; Computer Science  —  ICS 139W  —  David G. Kay   
    Changing the System: </strong>Peer Editing Guidelines for the Promotion Piece  
  Because this assignment is very short, you
should have  at least two of your classmates  edit it (and you should
edit two of your classmates' papers).  Try to work with people you haven't
worked with before.  (There's a separate page of guidelines for the
résumé and cover letter; consult that one if you're doing
that alternative.)  
Here are two excerpts from the assignment:
 
Any change in an existing system is likely to disrupt the system's current
users.  If your change were implemented, you would want to reassure the
current users that the new system will be better for them—to "sell
them," in other words, on your changes.  
Finally, you will prepare a one-page flyer, brochure, memo, or web page
announcing, describing, and promoting your change to the current users of
the system.  This "promotion piece" may be one- or two-sided and
may be relatively informal in tone—just so that it gets the message across
without its readers dismissing it as a joke.  
Great flexibility is possible in the form and content of these pieces, but
(a) they must do the job (in this case, make the users of the current system
want to use the changed system), (b) use clear, correct, grammatical English,
and (c) follow the principles of good design and typography.     
 Talk to the author. Does the author expect
the users to be eager to use the changes, or resistant to change, or hard
to convince in some other way?  What problems of persuasion does the author
anticipate?  
  
 Read your classmate's paper once through
without making any comments.  Then, write down briefly your first impressions:  
   
 Do mechanical errors get in the way of reading
it?  
  
 Is it well organized and easy to follow?  
  
 Does it do the job?  If you were a user of
the current system, would this piece make you more likely to try out the
changed system?  
   
 Read it again, more carefully, making specific
comments in the margins.  Focus your comments on the organization and content;
don't spend much time proofreading for spelling or grammatical errors.
 (But mention it to the author if you do find many mechanical errors.) 
What changes would help the author get the message across?  
  
 Can you list three ways in which the typography
and design actually  help  the piece to do its job?  Can you list ways
in which they interfere, and suggest improvements?  
  
 Review your comments with the author (and
vice versa).  Be sure to include your name as editor with your written comments
and return those comments to the author, who must include them with the
turned-in version.  Likewise, be sure to get the written comments of your
editor(s).  
  </body> 