 VHDL Reference Guide - Component Declaration<body>  This is Google's cache of  http://www.vdlande.com/VHDL/compdec.html . It is a snapshot of the page as it appeared on Oct 15, 2009 21:31:13 GMT. The  current page  could have changed in the meantime.  Learn more     Text-only version  
 These search terms are highlighted:  vhdl  These terms only appear in links pointing to this page:  reference   guide   vdlande       





 
   Component Declaration  
        Declaration 
 ---- used in ----&gt; 
 Architecture Package 
            Syntax        
  

 
      component  component_name
     generic  (generic_list);	
     port  (port_list);
 end component ;
  
    

 
See LRM sections 4.5, 1.1.1.1 and 1.1.1.2

         Rules and Examples        
  

 
    The port list must define the name, the mode (i.e.direction) and the
type of each port on the component. component HALFADD
  port(A,B : in bit;
       SUM, CARRY : out bit);
end component;
  
    

 
    A component declaration does not define the entity-architecture pair
to be bound to each instance, or even the ports on the entity. These are
defined by the  configuration 
 
    
  

 
    In an architecture, components must be declared before the
 begin  statement: architecture STRUCTURAL of FULLADD is
  -- (local signal declarations here)
  component ORGATE
    port (A,B : in  bit;
            Z : out bit);
  end component;
  -- (other component declarations)
begin
  -- the architecture contents
end STRUCTURAL;
  
    

 
    A component declared in a package is visible in any architecture
which uses the package, and need not be declared again. 
    

 
    For a component with generics, these must be declared before the
ports. They do not have a mode, as by definition they can only pass
information into the entity: component PARITY
  generic (N : integer);
  port    (A : in  std_ulogic_vector
                       (N-1 downto 0);
         ODD : out std_ulogic);
end component;
  
    



 
         Synthesis Issues        
  

 Component  declarations are supported for synthesis, providing the
port types are acceptable to the logic synthesis tool. Usually, only
generics of type integer are supported. Whether a synthesis tool will
"flatten through" a component, treat is as a "black box", or recognise
it as a primitive is usually under the user's control.

 
         Whats New in '93        

In  VHDL -93., an entity-architecture pair can be instantiated directly.
In this case a component declaration is not required. This is more
compact, but does not allow the flexibility of configuration.
  
In  VHDL -93, the component name may be followed by the keyword  is ,
for clarity and consistancy. also the keywords  end component  may
be followed by a repetition of the component name:  component component_name is
	port (port list);
end component component_name;
 

 

  </body> 