 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Features  


     
  

 
 

 ICS Day 2015 keeps students involved and connected  June 8, 2015  


  
 This year’s annual student-run tech carnival was filled with swag and selfies.</strong>


  
 




  
As students drift into the Computer Game Science (COGS) Lab, a barrage of colors, sounds and pixels encircles them. The source: a large selection of student-produced video games. 

  
Jason Chu, vice president of the Video Game Development Club (VGDC), guides visiting students through their options: There’s  Airpacas , a Tron-inspired game with cutesy graphics where players compete against each other with blue and pink airborne alpacas. Next to it, the graphically simple  Monopoley , where players are tasked with an equally simple objective: Don’t die. 


  
But at the center of the room is the biggest attraction — a demo of the Oculus Rift virtual reality headset, where users can preview an educational project that simulates the former Elmina Castle “slave fort” in Ghana. The project, designed by Allen Roman and Hongde Jin, comes out of the ICS computer game science capstone class.

 
  
Just outside the COGS Lab door, ICS Student Council’s (ICSSC) annual tech student carnival diffuses throughout the ICS-Engineering Hall Plaza. It’s ICS Day 2015!

 
  
Started in 2012, ICS Day is ICSSC’s largest annual event—and every year, they manage to make it bigger and better. “We implemented a lot of new things for this year's ICS Day, with the main ones being the raffle ticket system and the swag booth,” ICSSC Vice President Stephanie Chang said, referring to the Google Swag booth, where attendees traded raffle tickets for goodies like Google blankets and duffle bags.

 
  
In addition to the new celebratory additions, there were familiar holdovers, including the annual coding competitions, as well as performances from dance group MCIA, a capella group Uniting Voices and band AnonJ. Though it was a dragon-shaped bounce house that served as the festival’s beacon, with its giant, bobbing head that could be spotted from Aldrich Park.

 
  
ICS student organizations and corporate recruiters tabled the event, hosting activities and promoting their missions to interested ears. The UCI branch of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) held coding competitions that culminated in sparring with ICS Lecturer Alex Thornton. Across the plaza, IT Consulting Firm Pariveda Solutions hosted a toy-boat building and racing competition, whereby students engineered boats powered by blowing through a straw. Attendees also crowded into the selfie booth, wrapping themselves in feather boas and donning funny hats as they flashed their zot hands.

 
  
“Students were a lot more involved throughout the event this year, attending our coding competitions and taking pictures in the selfie booth to get more tickets to exchange for tons of swag and to enter our raffles for $50 Amazon gift cards and an Apple TV,” Chang said.

 
  
ICS Day takes ICSSC months to plan. As ICSSC President Delian Petrov noted  last year , “We plan the budget, the events, the food, the shirts and then we plan for when what we planned changes 180 degrees.”

 
  
All the planning panned out, Chang said. “I think ICS Day was especially well received this year, and I can't wait for next year!”







 
  
   — Story by Courtney Hamilton  
   — Video by Robert Farmer  
   — Photos by Matt Miller   







   

 
Watch the ICS Day 2015 highlights video:  




  UCI ICS Feature: ICS Day 2015 keeps students involved and connected 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 