 <body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Features  


     
  

 
 

 Unlocking the potential of deep learning
  February 18, 2016  
  
 Pierre Baldi leads ICS’s machine learning research, which assists particle physics experiments at CERN. 
 



  
At the European Organization for Nuclear Research, better known as CERN, the
Large Hadron Collider (LHC) produces one petabyte of data per second. Of this,
it only records roughly 6 
 gigabytes  
per second of data to be processed—amassing a record of 100 petabytes of
data since its first run in 2009. For context, 1 petabyte of data is
enough to store the DNA of the entire population of the United States, and then
clone them twice over, according to   Computer Weekly  . A
library of all of the world’s texts, in all of the world’s languages, would contain
nearly 50 petabytes of data. If we work with  Computer Weekly ’s
estimates, 100 petabytes of data would contain the entire human memories of
80,000 people. That’s the amount of data CERN scientists are working
with. 

 
And that’s where new techniques in artificial intelligence and
machine learning—especially deep learning—become very useful, says Pierre Baldi , Chancellor’s Professor of
Computer Science and director of the Institute for Genomics &amp;
Bioinformatics. In November, Baldi traveled to CERN with his graduate
student  Peter Sadowski  to lecture on deep
learning at a groundbreaking Data Science @ LHC 2015  Workshop , forging links between particle physics
and machine learning. 



  
Deep learning gets its name from the many layers used in
processing high-level abstractions. As Baldi explains, “Think about vision, for
instance, we don’t recognize images immediately. We detect edges or contours;
it’s a process that occurs in many stages. It’s a deep process that requires
extracting features and combining them together. Deep learning is the idea that
you can train this whole stack of processes together using data.” 

 
Baldi and his collaborator, UCI’s Associate Professor of Astronomy
and Physics  Daniel Whiteson , have shown that deep learning
can be used to improve our ability to detect exotic particles like the Higgs
boson, and potentially  dark matter . The
universe is 80 percent dark matter, and physicists have observed its
effects on gravity. But because dark matter doesn’t interact with light, we
don’t know what it is, exactly. The particle collision experiments attempt to
produce dark matter within the LHC—though dark matter’s existence, if produced
by the LHC, could only be inferred through energy and momentum lost after a
collision. With this level of obscurity, dark knowledge can improve
deep-learning processes and therefore aid in the analysis of dark matter data. 

 
Deep learning is also capable of creating “dark knowledge,” a form
of knowledge that is not explicitly present in the training data. Consider a
vision system trained to recognize a finite number of object categories, each
one associated with a different output. “When a car is presented to the trained
system, in the output, you’re getting all kinds of numbers. There will be a
large number corresponding to the car category, because the system is
well-trained to recognize the image of a car,” Baldi explains. “But it will
also have some value for a truck, because a truck is somewhat similar to a car.
The intensity for a vegetable, however, will be very low, because a vegetable
has nothing to do with a car. So, dark knowledge is the information contained
in the relative size of these numbers that goes beyond the fact of whether
there is a car or not in the image. It tells you something about the degree of
similarity between the categories.” 

 
Dark knowledge can be used to better train shallow learning
systems—smaller and faster, but less accurate systems like those on your
smartphone—fittingly tying together deep learning, dark knowledge and dark
matter. 



  
While the link between deep learning and particle physics is
picking up steam, there remain concerns. “There is always some level of anxiety
when a new method comes into a field, but deep learning comes with additional
anxieties because people view it as a ‘black box method,’” Baldi says. “It may
be very good at recognizing the signature of Higgs bosons, but you don’t know
how it does this, because the system learns from data through an opaque
process. People find this a little unsettling.” 

 
These groundbreaking new techniques upend principles physicists
have relied on for decades, but there’s an additional challenge to implementing
deep learning on a wide scale. “Deep learning requires a lot of computing
resources to process such large amounts of data and to train deep-learning
systems. It’s very intensive from a computational standpoint,” Baldi says.
Naturally, funding such huge enterprises can be difficult. 

 
Still, applying deep-learning techniques to particle physics
experiments represents only the tip of the iceberg in the field’s useful
applications. While deep learning has mainly been utilized in
engineering—examples include Facebook’s face recognition technology, or
Google’s use of deep learning to recognize speech and natural language—the
field could be useful in all natural sciences. In chemistry, for example, it is
being used to predict the outcome of reactions. In biology, it is being used to
predict protein structures, or the effect of mutations. 

 
Ultimately, Baldi says, “Deep learning is the greatest tool we
have today to detect faint signals in data. The potential impact is great.” 



 
 Online Resources: 
   Data Science @ LHC 2015 Workshop ( PDFs and recordings )

     Pierre Baldi’s lecture on “Deep Learning
and its Applications in Natural Science at the workshop ( PDF  and  recording )

     “Artificial intelligence called in to
tackle LHC data deluge” article in   Nature  

    
   — Story by Courtney Hamilton   










 UCI ICS Feature: Unlocking the potential of deep learning
 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 