 Info Session – Page 2 – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         

                 
                     

                         
                    
                                   Home     News   Info Session                                      
                                  Category Archives 
                         

                         
                             
                                 15 Articles                              
                         

                     
                 

             
    
     
         
             

                

 
        
             Week 4: Capgemini’s “Women in Consulting Night” (w/ SWE &amp; ICSSC) 

             

             

            
               Info Session    by admin 

            
                        on 10/27/2013 

    
     

                                    
 Wednesday, October 23rd, around 50 people attended Capgemini’s “Women in Consulting Night.” Capgemini showed a PowerPoint presentation about women in consulting and talked about their company. Afterwards, they had a panel of six consultants whom each shared their experiences at Capgemini. Near the end of the event, pizza was served as students had the chance to reach out to the Capgemini consultants and talk more about their available job and internship positions. WICS looks forward to more event opportunities with Capgemini in the future, so stay updated! 
 WICS would also like to thank all the people that attended despite the fact that they had midterms! 
                 
                                     
                         20</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             Week 2: Broadcom Info Session 

             

             

            
               Info Session    by admin 

            
                        on 10/10/2013 

    
     

                                                                    « prev        1     2        next »    (8 Photos)  
 WICS co-hosted this event with IEEE, HKN, and ICSSC on Wednesday, Oct. 9th. Betty Chan, along with a few other Broadcom employees, represented their company and gave an overview about how they enable wireless technology to connect nodes and their standalone wireless chip product. 
 They explained the expectations that Broadcom has when hiring and provided positions that they are looking for. Many students joined this info session and some had the chance to talk with Broadcom about possible intern and job opportunities. 
                 
                                     
                         21</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             Google Career Panel 

             

             

            
               Info Session    by admin 

            
                        on 10/31/2012 

    
     

        
		   
				   
			    
				   
			    
				   
			     
				   
			    
				   
			    

 The Google discussion panel was incredibly informative and the panelists were very forthcoming with information about being a woman in CS, what it’s like to work at Google, and how to be a good Google candidate.  We had over 45 members attending the event, and many enthusiastically rushed up to talk to the panelists after the event! 
 We had many delicious sandwiches and (amazing) ‘swag’ before the panel, and we had the fantastic opportunity of talking to the panelists one-on-one after the panel ended. 
 Google will be working with WICS on future projects this academic year, and have been very helpful and enthusiastic about working with our active WICS chapter.   Thank you to Google for hosting this event with WICS! 
                 
                                     
                         30</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             WICS &amp; SWE Hosts “Women in Consulting” with Capgemini 

             

             

            
               Info Session    by admin 

            
                        on 10/31/2012 

    
     

             
 We had a fantastic turnout of over 40 attendees at this event!  Our members really appreciated the breakout sessions, resume review, and interview practice! 
   
                 
                                     
                         13</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
        
             Masimo Presents “The Hidden Job Market” 

             

             

            
               Info Session    by admin 

            
                        on 10/31/2012 

    
     

         Thanks to all of our members that attended Masimo’s “The Hidden Job Market” presentation.  Remember it’s important to reach out and make connections, it make get you much further than just putting out resumes! 
                 
                                     
                         3</strong>
                         views 
                     
                 
                  

     
 
             
                 
                          Prev  
	  1  
	  2  
  
             
         
 
         
     

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 
</body> 