 CS 264, Fall 2009<body>
 CS 264   Quantum Computation   Fall 2009 
   Instructor  
Sandy Irani   4042 Bren Hall
 
 irani@ics.uci.edu
  Class Times and Place 
T-Th 11:00AM-12:30PM
 
Bren Hall  1423
 
No class: Oct 15, 22, 27  
Extra lecture: Tue, Dec 8, 10:30-12:30pm
  Course Overview  
This course will provide an introduction to the field of
quantum computation with an emphasis on computational complexity.
Below is a list of some of the topics that will be covered:
   Introduction to quantum mechanics from the perspective of quantum information.
   Formal models of quantum computation and quantum complexity classes.
   Quantum algorithms: quantum fourier transform and applications (including
Shor's algorithm for factoring), quantum search, quantum simulation.
   Limitations on quantum computation: lower bounds for
search, the class QMA and hardness results for
computing fundamental properties of quantum systems.
   Quantum entanglement, especially as it pertains to computational complexity.
  
Depending on time, I may give a couple overview lectures on important
areas in quantum computation which we will not have time
to cover in detail. Topics will hopefully include error correction and fault-tolerant
computation as well as quantum cryptography.

  Prerequisites  
No formal course requirements. Students with a strong background in
either computer science, mathematics, physics or chemstry are welcome to attend.

  Course Requirements  
Problem sets will be given every  two weeks.
Students are also expected to provide typed and formatted
scribe notes for two or three lectures which will be posted on
the course web page. Students may elect to do a project in lieu of the last
problem set. This could be a paper (original work or survey paper) or a
presentation in class.

   Reading list  
There is no required text for the course.
The following is a list of books and course notes that may be useful.
At the beginning of each lecture, I will point to recommended references
for the material to be presented.

  Kitaev, Shen and Vyalyi,  Classical and Quantum Computation  
 Nielsen and Chuang,  Quantum Computation and Quantum
Information  
  Mermin,   Quantum Computer Science    
  Umesh Vazirani's Course Notes on Quantum Computation:
 
link.    
  John Preskill's Course Notes on Quantum Computation:
 
link    .
  Scott Aaronson's Course Notes on Quantum Complexity Theory:
 
link    .
  Scott Aaronson's Course Notes on Quantum Computing Since Democritus:
 
link    .
  Qubits, Quantum Mechanics and Computers: Course Notes
 
link  .
   Andrew Child's course on Quantum Algorithms:
 
link  .

    Lecture Topics  

   
Date
 
 
Topic
 
   
Sep 24
 
 
Quantum Mechanics Postulates, Qubits
 
   
Sep 29
 
 
Observables, Hamiltonian, Schrodinger's Eqn
 
   
Oct 1
 
 
Tensor products, Entanglement, Bell Inequalities
 
   
Oct 6
 
 
Quantum circuits, Universal gate sets
 
   
Oct 8
 
 
Quantum Complexity Classes, QFT over Z_2^N Deutsch-Jozsa
 
   
Oct 13
 
 
BQP in PSPACE, Simon's Algorithm
 
   
Oct 20
 
 
QFT over Z_N, Factoring reduces to Order Finding
 
   
Oct 29
 
 
Shor's Factoring Algorithm
 
   
Nov 3
 
 
Factoring Recap, Hidden Subgroup Problem
 
   
Nov 5
 
 
Phase Estimation, Discrete Log
 
   
Nov 10
 
 
Lower Bound for Unstructured Search
 
   
Nov 12
 
 
Grover Search, Quantum Simulation
 
   
Nov 17
 
 
Search by Quantum Walk
 
   
Nov 19
 
 
Quantum Hitting Time
 
   
Nov 24
 
 
Quantum Walk Algorithm for Search and Element Distinctness
 
   
Dec 1
 
 
Adiabatic Quantum Computation
 
   
Dec 3
 
 
QMA-completeness
 
   
Dec 8
 
 
Error Correcting Codes
 
  </body> 