 bryant hornick spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Spotlights  


     
 Bryant Hornick spotlight 

 
 

  Starting Early </strong>
 
 
  Bryant Hornick 
 
 
 Traditionally,  undergraduate education has taken place in the classroom, while research has  been for graduate students and faculty. 
 Not at UC Irvine.  
 Third year Informatics  major Bryant Hornick is one of the more than one-third of UCI undergraduates who  do research work with faculty. 
 “I started doing  undergraduate research under professor Bill Tomlinson the end of winter quarter  my freshman year, so I guess that means I've been doing research for almost two  years now,” Hornick said.  
  UC Irvine's Summer Undergraduate  Research Program  provided Hornick an opportunity to do full time research  during the summer between his freshman and sophomore year. Between his  sophomore and junior year, he did full time research as a  Summer Undergraduate  Research Fellowship in Information Technology  fellow.  
 Among the projects he has  had the opportunity to work on include the  EcoRaft Project , an interactive  educational installation that teaches children and adults about restoration  ecology.  
 “I didn't have much  experience at this point, but I worked on the project as a designer,  programmer, and evaluator,” Hornick said. “One of my responsibilities was to  figure out how we could test whether or not participants are actually learning  anything about restoration ecology while interacting with the exhibit. It was  not an easy task, but in the end the evaluations were a success.” 
 His work on EcoRaft allowed  Hornick to attend SIGGRAPH, the definitive conference on computer graphics and  interactive techniques. The group ran on very little sleep and had to commute  to and from Los Angeles  during the conference, but it was all worth it.  
 “We demo'd our project to  over a thousand people over the course of a week, including George Lucas,”  Hornick said. “I met some amazing people and saw the technology of tomorrow  coming out of companies and universities all over the world.” 
 Another project he worked  on was called Dreams, an interactive program that uses dreams as a metaphor for  visualizing the processes behind adaptive user interfaces.  
 “I worked on this project  both from the design level and the programming level, coding up the  cinematography system and some of the behind-the-scenes memory management  stuff,” Hornick said.  
 The paper he co-authored  with his research group was recently accepted into CHI, a conference on  human-computer interaction, making him an officially published author, which he  finds pretty exciting. 
 “Overall I would say that  I've learned more out of my experience as an undergraduate researcher than I  have in any of my classes,” Hornick said. “It's one of the best things you can  do as an undergraduate.” 
  ACADEMIC TRAILBLAZER </strong> 
 Hornick, a Corona native, isn’t just  on the cutting edge of HCI research, he is also on the bleeding edge of  computer science education as a member of the inaugural Informatics class.  
 
 Check out our spotlight page  to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni.
 
 “I started programming when  I was a sophomore in high school, so I knew I wanted to go into computer  science,” Hornick said. “It wasn't until I heard about the Informatics program  through the orientation lectures that I thought I could do something  computer-related without focusing on the programming-aspect of things.” 
 The Informatics major  covers the design, implementation, use and impact of information technology.  Compared to traditional computer science, which primarily focuses on the  internal features of computer systems, Informatics is also concerned with  computer systems and their surrounding context -- the people and organizations  that use them and the problems they need to solve. 
 “I enjoy programming, but  it's certainly not what I want to do as a career,” Hornick said. “Informatics  offered a path to do something different and something more people-oriented.  That's really what sold me. It's a people-oriented major.” 
 Though he is filled with a  sense of pride and excitement, there are also some uncertainties that which can  make being on the cutting edge of education a tad bit interesting.  
 “Many of the Informatics  courses are being taught for the first time when I take them,” Hornick said. “Some  can be a little rough around the edges in terms of content. But that's only  because we're apart of something brand new and there is no reference out there  as to how these classes should be taught.” 
 Since it is a comparatively  small major, it is also imperative that students come up with and stick to a four-year  plan as most of the Informatics-specific classes are only offered once a year.  
 “From my experience,  Informatics is not that friendly to those pursuing a double major, or even a  minor,” Hornick said. “Hopefully, though, this will change if more people start  signing up.” 
 Despite a few rough edges,  Hornick heartily recommends Informatics to prospective students who feel it is  the right major for them and are not enamored with programming or the hardware  aspect of computers.    
 “It's exciting!” Hornick  said. “I really feel like this major is cutting edge, and that I'm learning  skills that not many traditional computer science students are.” 
 Computer science is  constantly changing and Hornick credits the Informatics program for teaching  him the skills to adapt to a constantly changing field.  
 “I never took a class on  C++ or Python, but classes like ICS 141 and Informatics 142 have given me the  skills to learn any language with relative ease,” Hornick said. “The Bren School  has given me a very strong foundation for me to build on, and both the classes  I have taken and the research I have done have given me the skill set to take  on the challenging problems that will face me after college.” 
  ENJOYING DOWN TIME</strong>   
          Even with a busy schedule of class and research, Hornick still finds time to  enjoy the social aspect of college life like going to the movies with friends,  listening to music, or reading a good book.    
 He also attends the Video  Game Development Club meetings and tries to take a class at the ARC every  quarter.  
 “I recently took African  dance, which was pretty interesting,” Hornick said. “My mom is a huge  volleyball nut, so you might catch me and her attending some of UCI's home  games from time to time.” 
 With graduation less than a  year away, Hornick hopes to attend graduate school for his Masters before  entering the video game industry, either from the design side or the production  side. 
  - Eric Kowalik  


 
 
 
  More community » 
   Alumni  
  Friends  
  Parents  
  Leadership Council  
  News  
  Give a gift  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 