 Shivajit Mohapatra's Portfolio :: Research :: Projects 

    

 
     
         
             
                  
                         
                            Bio
                         
                     
                     
                         Portfolio 
                     
                     
                         Publications 
                     
                     
                         Engagements 
                     
                     
                         Personal 
                     
                     
                         Miscellanea 
                     
                  
         
     
 




  
      :: My Work  
      
        The primary  focus of my work at Motorola has been in the area of mobile computing.
        Being part of an applied research center, the primary goal of my work is to build and
        demonstrate system prototypes that can eventually find a home in future shipping Motorola
        products. Over the years, I have created or overseen the creation of several interesting
        prototype systems, that employed next-generation enablers and related applications for
        showcasing the technology. Many of these systems where designed for multimedia applications.
        My contributions can be classified into four broad categories -
        (i) Mobile Applications
        (ii) Middleware Enablers
        (iii) Peer-to-Peer Systems and
        (iv) Power Management.
     

     
        I believe that systems research should involve both theoretical and applied
        solutions, which together have the greatest potential for impacting a research area.
        Research prototypes need to be designed with the goal of addressing a real-life
        problem and evaluating a novel and interesting approach to an important underlying
        research problem. While simulations can be effective in verifying and evaluating theoretical
        foundations, it is also important to have a compelling prototype for real-world usability.
        Such an approach is very effective not only in validating the prototype, but also in
        gathering qualitative feedback and more credible quantitative results. I also believe that
        the best research results are achieved through effective collaboration where-in the
        perspectives and expertise of each collaborator could contribute towards new ideas and
        better systems. Here is my  research statement .
     

 

  
    
    
    
    
    
 
 
 
   
      :: Mobile Applications  
      
         TV Companion Applications (HTML5 / Android tablet) 
           
                  
             
                 
                    For much of 2011, I was involved with the architecting, design and implementation of
                    TV companion applications. The goal was to create a tablet application that could be
                    used to compliment content playing live on TV. The applications were designed to
                    access content aggregated from the TMS metadata server and present users with options
                    to pivot around key content types. I created the first HTML5 prototype of the
                    application which was hosted on the Amazon servers. The application was successfully
                    demonstrated at CES 2011. Subsequently, our team built upon this application to create
                    a native Android application (for Xoom tablets) with a redesigned user interface while
                    adding social components such as presence, chat and recommendations. The native android
                    application is still used in several company wide internal demos showcasing the
                    technology built within the labs.
                 

             
              
         Motorola Mover  
             (shipping product)    
                  
             
                 

                    In 2009, I worked with the Motorola Home business unit for the initial design
                    of the Motorola Mover product prototype. The idea was to transcode and encrypt recorded
                    content on a user's set-top box and store it on the Motorola mover. This content would
                    subsequently be exposed via a RESTful web interface to authorized mobile phones (belonging to the
                    same
                    user). I defined the web interfaces and created the initial working prototype
                    iPhone application for the project.
                 

                 

                    I also created the initial prototype iPhone application used by the  Motorola WaveRunner 
                    product. The Waverunner product was designed for AT&amp;T U-verse customers and presented
                    the ability to schedule PVR from the U-verse set-top box, PC and the iPhone. The
                    content would then be recorded on the network and would be available for download and
                    playback on the iPhone (and subsequently other mobile phones). (2009-2010)

                 

                 
                    Here is the  
                    CNET video  for the Motorola Mover, which also received a
                     
                        honoree award 
                    at CES 2010.  


                 

                 


             
            


   
     [ top ] 
 
 

      :: Middleware Enablers  

      
         Home Spaces - Framework for creating ensembles 
           
                  
             
                 
                    The objective of the Home Space research project was to enhance the productivity and digital
                    experiences of a person by applying the core principles of cloud computing to the home
                    environment. Through this, the individual ‘smart’ devices in a home (TVs, cell phones,
                    media players, tablets, PCs, home automation, etc) are the pool of configurable
                    computing resources that can be joined together as needed to form a single system (a
                    device ensemble) and then dynamically reconfigured as needed as people and devices come
                    and go or move within the home. The ‘Home Space’ becomes the nexus for content,
                    applications, control, and context.
                 

                 
                    We spent much of 2012, conceptualizing, architecting, designing and prototyping the first
                    version of the framework. Initial implementation of the prototype was designed to enable
                    next generation browsing, sharing and collaboration experiences using purely web
                    technology, thereby addressing the existing client device fragmentation. (2011-2012)
                 


             
              
         Content Presence Multicast Protocol 
           
                  
             
                 We designed the Content Presence Multicast Protocol (CPMP) to support social content
                    consumption experiences. It is intended to be deployed in ad-hoc wireless local area
                    network environments. CPMP provides a framework for periodically communicating
                    information about what content is currently being consumed and what content is being
                    sought for future consumption at each participating node. Our goal was to make the
                    protocol efficient and scalable while including features intended to support
                    synchronization of presence message transmissions. CPMP messages are transmitted
                    periodically (via multicast UDP/IP frames) to inform nearby devices of updated
                    content
                    presence information using IP
                    multicast. 

                 Each CPMP message includes a field that specifies the number of seconds in which to
                    expect a new CPMP message. By transmitting
                    CPMP messages at approximately the same time CPMP messages are expected, an
                    implementation can avoid powering on the wireless LAN radio for transmissions -
                    essentially piggy-backing CPMP transmission with reception. Ideally, all
                    participating
                    nodes will use this technique simultaneously, resulting in synchronization of CPMP
                    activity. Joint work with  Mike Pearce  and  Bogdan Carbunar . 


             
              
         Multicast DNS for Android 
           
                  
             
                 
                    Implemented a library (called DataStew) around the open source java mDNS library
                     JmDNS  to allow android devices
                    to communicate using Bonjour. The library interface followed closely the
                    API provided by Apple in their SDK. Since Motorola was considering using
                    Android on their set top boxes at the time - this would have been a strong
                    enabler for getting set-top boxes to talk to Android/iOS devices over Wi-Fi.
                    Joint work with  Mike Pearce  and  Loren Rittle . (2009-10)
                 

             
              
         Utility based Fetch-Flush Scheduler 
           
                  
             
                 
                    An intelligent content scheduling and garbage collection algorithm that was responsible
                    for deciding which content items should be resident on a memory constraint mobile device
                    and which can be flushed. At any point of time, using utility functions, we
                    modeled the relevance of the items in the cache in a consistent manner across multiple
                    applications. By ensuring only the items with the highest utility are resident, we could
                    maximize the utility of the local storage. By allowing applications to select between
                    multiple utility functions, we allowed for optimization schemes to be matched to different
                    application-specific content access patterns. The scheduler was designed to be event
                    driven in order to capture application events (e.g. content item consumption) or
                    network events (e.g. availability of a new network) that trigger the pre-fetch and the
                    garbage collection of content. Joint work with  Mike Pearce  and  Rohit Chaudhri .
                 


             
            

   
     [ top ] 
 
 

      :: Peer-to-Peer Systems  
      
         Where-Fi - Energy Efficient Multimedia Distribution 
           
                  
             
                  Where-Fi is an umbrella technology that we developed in house at Motorola Labs for social
                    consumption of media using cell phones. This technology involved designing protocols
                    for ad-hoc wifi based content (audio, video, images) sharing, designing distributed
                    algorithms for power optimization and creating user interfaces for content consumption
                    and creation. CPMP was used as the underlying technology for energy efficient
                    information dissemination. Using this technology, we designed applications that
                    allowed users to visualize content being consumed around them (called Zeitgeist) and
                    also to download and consume content around them (MeCast). This work has generated two
                    patents and two publications in international conferences. Joint work with  Mike
                        Pearce  and  Bogdan Carbunar .(2007) 

                 
                    See  demo video  or check out our
                     paper .
                 

             
              
         Photocast - Interactive Digital Photo sharing 
           
                  
             
                  I created an ad-hoc WiFi based interactive digital photo sharing application on the
                    Apple iPhone. The application includes an energy efficient protocol for media
                    distribution and user interface for viewing, sharing and creating content. Also
                    implemented is a feature for following “users of interest” with a single click. I also
                    implemented an animated flowing UI where thumbnails of pictures taken on nearby
                    devices who drop down from the top of the screen and allow users to subsequently download
                    full size images. (2008)
                 

                 
                    I jointly co-taught a project course at Notre Dame along with Aaron Striegel and
                    Christian Poellabauer. Here is the  
                    video of the Photocast application  created by the students on Windows phones.
                 

             
              
         Neighborhood Caching through Learning Algorithms 
           
                  
             
                 
                    This research project was designed to create and
                    evaluate caching strategies in a neighborhood mesh network of set-top boxes for
                    effective video distribution. The goal was to evaluate the possibility of caching
                    potentially large collections of videos using statistical analysis and machine learning
                    algorithms. This would have reduced the load on broadband access links and VoD servers
                    by reducing upstream traffic to the video head end. (2009)
                 

             
            

   
     [ top ] 
 

 
      :: Power Management  
      
         Dynamo: Cross-Layer Power Optimization on Mobile Devices (Ph.D. Thesis work)  
           
                  
             
                 
                    As part of my PhD. dissertation, I evaluated several techniques (both theoretical and empirical) for
                    optimizing energy consumption on mobile devices. I proposed a cross-layer approach to
                    energy optimization, where a distributed middleware component is used to coordinate energy
                    optimization at various system layers. My contention was that a distributed middleware with
                    knowledge of application QoS requirements, network transmission characteristics and energy budget
                    could dynamically negotiate QoS with applications as well as coordinate adaptations at various
                    system layers such that the application QoS requirements could me met under the energy constraints.
                    To facilitate such cross-layer adaptations, I designed and evaluated a system called “Dynamo” that
                    implemented APIs for bidirectional information sharing across various system layers. Using this
                    system I have demonstrated that energy savings as high as 55% were possible through joint adaptation
                    of the various system components (CPU, wireless network interface and LCD backlight). In addition to
                    the Dynamo system, I developed a graph theoretic solution to achieve energy aware task
                    reconfigurations for optimizing energy consumption on mobile devices. I also developed a game
                    theoretic approach for analyzing and optimizing energy consumption on mobile systems.
                 

                 
                    For more information (papers, downloads, presentations) please visit the
                     Dynamo  website. (2002-2005)
                 

             
            

 
   
        
         
             ©
                 Shivajit Mohapatra 
                  
         
     
   </body> 