 Message from the Dean | School of Social Sciences | UCI Social Sciences<body>
       
          
             
	 
		 
			
			     University of California, Irvine   
					    UNDERGRAD   
					    GRAD   
					    ALUMNI  
			  
		 
			
			       
      
      
      
      
    
  
			  
	 
 

 
	 
		
		     
		
		
		
				
				
		 
 

  
     
        
        
           About 
                
                  
                         About 
                             Dean's Message  
                                School Leadership  
                                Employment Opportunities  
                                Facts &amp; Figures  
							
                          
                     
                         Directories 
                             Faculty &amp; Lecturers  
                                Staff  
                                Graduate Students &amp; TAs  
                          
                  
              Academics 
                
                  
						    Academics 
                             Departments  
                                Degree Programs  
                                Course Descriptions  
                          
                     
						 Undergraduates 
                             Majors, Honors, Minors &amp; Certificates  
							    Contacts  
                          Graduates 
                             Masters  
                                Doctoral Degrees  
							     Contacts  
                          
                  
               Research 
                
                  
						    Research 
                             Research Centers, Institutes &amp; Facilities  
                                Research Granting Opportunities  
                                Research Conduct  
							    Human Subjects Lab  Extra Credit Research  
                          
                     
						  Research Network 
                             Research Network Website  
							
                          
                  
              People 
                
                  
                         Students 
                             Undergraduate  
                                Graduate  
                          Alumni 
                             Alumni &amp; Friends  
                          
                    
                     
                         Faculty &amp; Lecturers 
                             Directory  
							    Profiles  
                                Resources  
                                Employment Opportunities  
                          Staff 
                             Staff Directory  
                          
                    
                     
                         Administrative Offices 
                             Business  
                                Communications  
                                Computing Services  
                                Dean's Office  
                                Development  
                                Facilities  
                                Personnel  
                          
                  
            
              Outreach 
                
                  
						 Student Outreach Organizations 
                        
                             Ambassador's Council  
                                Global Connect  
                                HABLA  
                                Jumpstart  
                          
					
					 
                         Alumni &amp; Community Outreach Organizations 
						     Alumni Network  
							    Board of Councilors  
							    Dean's Leadership Society  
                          
                  
			
			
			
            
			  Opportunities 
                
                  
						 Funding 
                             Research Granting Opportunities  
                                Undergraduate Scholarship Opportunities  
							    Graduate Opportunities &amp; Deadlines  
						
                          Employment 
                             Employment Opportunities  
                          
                     
                         Involvement 
						     Mentorship - Attorney Program  
							    Alumni Network  
							    Board of Councilors  
							    Dean's Leadership Society  
                          
					 
                         Giving 
						     Giving Opportunities  
							
                          
                  
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
                Giving 
			
			
			               
                  
						  Giving 
                             Social Sciences Giving  
						   
					
					 
                         Involvement 
						
					     Alumni Network  
							    Board of Councilors  
							    Dean's Leadership Society  
                          
                  
			
			  News &amp; Events 
                
                  
						   News &amp; Events 
                             News  
							    In the Media  
							    Events  
                          
                     
						   News &amp; Events 
                             Blogs  
							    Journals  
							    Videos  
							    Newsletters  
                          
                  
            
              Contact 
                
                  
                            
                          
                     
						
                              Contact Us</strong>
                                 
                                    Mailing address, phone number, questions.
                                   
                          
                     
                         Directories 
						     Full School Directory  
							    Faculty &amp; Lecturer  
                                Staff  
                                Graduate Student &amp; TA  
                          
                  
          
              
         
     
 
               
             
                
                   
                      
                         Message from the Dean 
                      
                      
                          You are here: 
                                social sciences  
                                about  
                             
                   
                
                
                   
                          B  oundaryless.</strong> 
                     
                       Google the term – coined by former GE CEO Jack Welch – and you’ll learn that it’s
                        most often applied in business to explain an organization that throws caution to the
                        wind, scrapping boundaries and bureaucracies in order to tap the internal power of
                        its people to directly enact change.  For the past 50 years, the School of Social Sciences has been putting this approach
                        into practice, breaking down traditional barriers to create change in society, economies
                        and human well-being. But never has this boundaryless-mindset been more important
                        than today.   The 21st century has brought on profound and previously unthinkable social change.
                        We live longer and face new social, economic and health challenges brought on by an
                        aging population. Political, ethical and environmental challenges are marked by ever-increasing
                        uncertainty and, paradoxically, the easy availability of more and more data about
                        us.   These challenges know no boundaries – they stop at no border and they aren’t limited
                        to one discipline.   That’s why social scientists at the University of California, Irvine are facing them
                        head on, together.   Our students, who comprise nearly 20 percent of the entire UCI student body, are in
                        the conflict zones of the Middle East and teaching global awareness in Orange County
                        high schools. They are in our groundbreaking behavioral economics labs, testing new
                        methods to reduce traffic congestion, create better online marketplaces and prevent
                        the spread of disease. They are in our brain, behavior, and cognitive robotics labs
                        – mapping the structure of the human brain to understand how speech works in order
                        to help restore it in victims of stroke, and building interactive robots aimed at
                        improving social engagement in children with ADHD and autism. Our students are doing
                        fieldwork in India, Africa, China – indeed, everywhere on the planet, exploring fundamental
                        issues of peace, politics, population, migration and cross-cultural communication.
                      
                     
                      
                        
                           "</strong>  
                        
                          "...solutions to some of society’s greatest challenges lie in our ability to break
                              the mold, to be boundaryless."</strong> 
                        
                      
                     
                       Our faculty are breaking with convention to forge connections with computer science,
                        engineering, the arts and the humanities. Interdisciplinary work with law, medicine
                        and environmental science helps our researchers educate policy makers on the social,
                        cultural and psychological factors impacting regulation and policy adoption, health
                        and human behavior.   Our maverick spirit and openness to new approaches and unexpected collaborations has
                        kept us nimble and at the cutting-edge in a number of fields as different as transportation
                        economics, cultural anthropology, the philosophy of physics and biology, and the sociology
                        of mass movements.   Our world-class professors in our seven top-ranking departments are experts in their
                        fields, consistently sought by national media to provide perspective on innovative
                        discoveries and pressing social problems. Our faculty are teaching courses within
                        the most popular majors on campus and leading more students to successful graduation
                        than any other academic unit at UCI.  Our alumni – numbering more than 45,000 strong – are taking their world-class education
                        from our Irvine classrooms to the halls of justice in D.C. and international relations
                        work in capitals around the world, to entrepreneurial endeavors from Northgate to
                        Northern Africa, to courtrooms across the nation, boardrooms in some of the world’s
                        top companies, and classrooms around the globe where they’re training our next generation
                        of leaders.   And we’re just getting started.   Learn more within these pages about our degree programs, research centers, student
                        programs, and opportunities. Involvement in any one of our endeavors helps us in our
                        continuing effort to push the limits in traditional social sciences work because we
                        believe that solutions to some of society’s greatest challenges lie in our ability
                        to break the mold, to be boundaryless.  Join us in our pursuit.    Bill Maurer, Dean</strong>  School of Social Sciences</strong> 
                   
                
               Quick Links 
                   News  
                      Events  
                      Give  
                      Contact  
                  
            
   Maps &amp; Directions  
  School Directory  
  Employment Opportunities  
  UC Irvine  
  
          Find Us On 
      facebook @ucisocsci  
     twitter @ucisocsci  
     YouTube @ucisocialsciences  
     google+  
     linkedin  
    
 instagram @ucisocsci  
  
         
              
                     ©   UC Irvine   School of Social Sciences 
                    - 3151 Social Sciences Plaza, Irvine, CA 92697-5100 - 949.824.2766
                 
             
         
        
     
                © 
             
          
       
   </body> 