 Jim McKenzie: A Celebration of Life<body>

 This site will look much better in a browser that supports  web standards , but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device. 
   

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










      Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  Events  &gt;    
    
  
 
  Jim McKenzie  A Celebration of Life 1972-2016  
     </strong>  
    Remembering the life of Jim </strong>     "Heroes get remembered, but legends never die." –    Babe Ruth   </strong>  
  Jim McKenzie grew up in West Windsor, New Jersey, graduating from West Windsor-Plainsboro High School (South) and began his undergraduate education at UC Irvine in the fall of 1990. As an undergraduate, Jim was a resident assistant and also worked for several years as a student assistant at the UCI Extended Day Care. After graduating with his degree in psychology in 1994, he began his career at UC Irvine as the lead teacher at UCI Extended Day Care Center, and over the next 21 years advanced to positions of increasing responsibility on the campus. These positions included roles as coordinator of marketing and information technology for Housing Administrative Services; director of finance and operations in the Claire Trevor School of the Arts, assistant director in the UCI Budget Office; director of finance and human resources for the Center for Educational Partnerships; director of financial management at the Paul Merage School of Business; and most recently, since 2013, as assistant dean in the Donald Bren School of Information Computer Sciences. Jim achieved great success because he was intelligent and hard working. Perhaps most important though he succeeded because in each of the roles he held, Jim strove for excellence in management. He believed, first and foremost, that in order to build a better workplace, you must always invest in your people. Jim worked to create an atmosphere of inclusiveness and joy. This was true off campus as well in his volunteer work in youth sports. Indeed, he taught us all how to enjoy life simply by living his own.  
 
 Jim is survived by his wife and two sons. He will be remembered fondly by all who knew him.  
 In the future, should a fond memory or fun story of Jim come to mind that you wish to share with his wife to keep and re-visit with the boys as they are growing up, please email it to:  Baseballcoachjim@gmail.com . 
 
  
    Photos &amp; Video</strong></strong>  :</strong>  If you have photos or video of Jim that you would like to share, please upload them to our private   Google Photo Album  .  
  
     
  
  How to Help</strong> 
  A McKenzie Family Education Fund has been established to help cover the future college costs of Jim's two sons. You can make a donation online at the  YouCaring website &gt;  
  The family also welcomes contributions to the Crystal Cove Alliance in memory of Jim. Donations can be sent to Crystal Cove Alliance,#5 Crystal Cove, Newport Coast, CA 92651. You can also make donations  online . Make sure to mention that the donation is made in memory of Jim McKenzie. The organization will provide Jim’s family with a list of those who made donations in his memory.  
   
 
 
  
  
 

</body> 