 Pierre Baldi :: University of California, Irvine<body>
		   
		     Pierre Baldi   
			University of California in Irvine ( UCI ) 
			School of Information and Computer Sciences ( ICS ) 
			Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics ( IGB )  
			 
		       
						
			 
		   
			
			    Home      Publications      Books      Software      Group      Courses      Tutorials            Other     
			
			 
			
			    
			 
			     Neural Networks
       
           
            ICS 276A 
            Pierre Baldi
           
         
       
      
          
            
          Course -  Prerequisites  -   Textbooks  -  Grading </strong>  
         
          Course Goals and Description
         
         This is a graduate level course on neural networks. The course covers the following topics:         
              
               
                Historical introduction. Connections to biological         modeling, computational neuroscience, and cognitive modeling.         Artificial/Natural NNs.
                  
                 
                 
               
                Basic concepts of feedforward networks. Single layer         perceptrons. Multi-layer perceptrons Activation functions. Higher-order         NNs. Error functions. Regression. Classification.
                  
                 
                 
               
                Universal approximation properties.                 
                 
                 
               
                Bayesian probabilistic framework and Bayesian statistical approach to NNs. Maximum likelihood approaches.                  
                 
                 
               
                Learning. Gradient Descent. Backpropagation.                 
                 
                 
               
                Recurrent NNs. Learning in recurrent NNs.                 
                 
                 
               
                NN differential equations.Dynamical systems.                 
                 
                 
               
                Hopfield model. Bolotzmann machines. Optimization.                 
                 
                 
               
                Unsupervised learning. K-means. Self-organizing maps.                  
                 
                 
               
                Bias-variance tradeoffs.
                  
                 
                 
               
                Weight sharing. Cross validation methods. Weight decay. Ensemble methods.                  
                 
                NNs will be applied to a variety of data sets including time series and spatial data in diverse fields ranging from biology to finance. 
         The official catalog description is: 
         ICS 276A: Introduction to concepts of artificial neural networks (ANNs). Architectures for supervised and unsupervised networks. Mathematics of learning and performance rules. 
        
           
            
           Course    - Prerequisites -  Textbooks  -  Grading   	        
                   
          Prerequisites          
         
         A basic understanding of discrete and continuous mathematics, calculus, and probability theory, as well as proficiency in programming, or consent of instructor.  
        
           
            
           Course    -  Prerequisites  - Textbooks -  Grading   
                   
          Textbooks          
         
         Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition by Christopher M. Bishop (Oxford University Press) 
         Bioinformatics: the Machine Learning Approach by Pierre Baldi and Soren Brunak (MIT      Press) 
        
           
           
           Course    -  Prerequisites  -  Textbooks  - Grading  
         
          Grading
         
         Students will read articles from the literature. Grading will be based on participation in class discussions,  one exam, and a project with final presentation resulting in a brief (5--10 pages) conference-style      written report. Additional assignments can include homeworks .   
         
            
  Back to Courses  			 
			   

		   
	 
	
		© 2017 Pierre Baldi |  pfbaldi [at] uci [dot] edu 

	 
	 
	   
	  </body> 