 Chimera 2.0 Tutorial: swing CLASSPATH setup for Solaris<body>
 

 How to set CLASSPATH in Solaris and how to set swing in the CLASSPATH 

  
This section will explain how to set the CLASSPATH environment variable
to include swing 1.0.1, the specific file needed is swingall.jar.
This assumes that you have swing downloaded and placed somewhere on your system.  
This section will begin with a disscussion of environment variables 
before discussing the CLASSPATH environment variable and how to set it
to the proper swing files.
 

 Note: The examples use the tcsh shell.
 

 Environment Variables in Unix 

   Unix uses environment variables to provide 
information to applications.  
The Unix shell for instance sets up some variables automatically (LOGNAME,
HOME, etc.) when you login.  These variables may then be used by other 
applications you use.  For instance, the X Window System uses the value
of the DISPLAY environment variable to determine which host, window, and 
screen to display on.  
 

 The CLASSPATH environment variable 

  
CLASSPATH is the environment variable that the Java interpretor uses to 
look for Java byte-code (located in files that end in .class, .jar, etc.).  
This
variable must be set to include swing 1.0.1 which Chimera 2.0 uses.
(Note: If you are using JDK 1.2 beta 3 or later, then swing 1.0.1 is already 
included with JFC 1.1 whicch comes
with it so you do not have to download swing and add it to your CLASSPATH.)
 

 Displaying the CLASSPATH 

 
To display your current CLASSPATH type the command 
  echo $CLASSPATH  
 
This
command asks your shell to display the string associated with the
CLASSPATH environment variable.
 

   

 
Note: The CLASSPATH has no value.  In this example, we will construct 
the CLASSPATH environment variable.  If you have items already in your
CLASSPATH variable you wish to keep, consult any of these links for 
examples on how to append to an existing CLASSPATH.
 

  
 
Example of appending CLASSPATH with the path to the JSDK on Solaris 
  
 
Example of appending CLASSPATH with the path to Rivendell on Solaris 
  
 
Example of appending CLASSPATH with the path to MSXML on Solaris  
   Setting the CLASSPATH to the swing files 

  To set the CLASSPATH variable, you may use the command setenv.
For Chimera 2.0, you need to specify the location of 
the swing 1.0.1 file used by Chimera 2.0.
The swing 1.0.1 files is:
 
  swingall.jar
   Note: swingall.jar includes the swing.jar, motif.jar, windows.jar, and 
beaninfo.jar files. 

  You can use the setenv command in the following way when you
have no CLASSPATH value. The command will look like this:
  setenv CLASSPATH  path_to_swingall.jar  
 
In the example below, the path to where swing 1.0.1 was located 
in the tester's environment.
 

   

  Note: You should verify that the CLASSPATH has been set by using the 
command echo $CLASSPATH which was described earlier.
 

  You now have the swing file you need for Chimera 2.0 set in the 
CLASSPATH
 

</body> 