 press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  &gt;  Press releases  


     
 Press release 

 
 





  May 28,  2010</strong>  Li, Xie awarded Intel grant to study compression of personal human genome data</strong>    
Computer science professors Chen Li and Xiaohui Xie have been awarded a $100,000 grant from Intel.  The grant will support a research on genome compression and direct querying of compressed genomic data. Li and Xie will be collaborating on the research with colleagues at China's Northeastern University.

  
Compression of genomic data comes at a time when personalized medicine has become the new medical paradigm and the cost of mapping an individual's genome is rapidly declining. Some estimates suggest that the cost to sequence individual genomes may be less than $1,000 in a couple years.  These haploid human genomes are large and consist of 3 billion letters representing the nucleic acid bases (A, C, G, T) that make up our genome.

  
Storage and searchability of these data sets is critical in personalized medicine, where individual patient care is designed and optimized to that patient's preventative and therapeutic needs. Li and Xie demonstrated the possibility of compressing these large data sets without losing any information to less than 4 million bytes (about 4 megabytes) — small enough to send as an email attachment — in the  journal of Bioinformatics  last year.

  
The Intel grant will support Professors Li and Xie's research efforts to further optimize the compression algorithm they proposed. In addition, the award will support a new research project on how to query human genomes, such as returning sequences at a particular location or identifying all sequences perfectly and approximately matched to a query string.  The goal of the research effort is to make manipulation of the genome data much easier and more efficient, and significantly improve the practice of personal genomics.

  
Associate Professor Li's research interests are in the fields of database and information systems, including Web search, data integration, data cleansing, data-intensive computing

  
Assistant Professor Xie's research focuses in machine learning, bioinformatics, computational biology and neural computation. He is interested in both developing novel machine learning theory and algorithms, and applying them to practical problems, such as biology and medical science.

   
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 