 i*<body>

 

 
i*
 

  
    Home 
 
   
    Foundations home 
 
   
 
 Sets   Relations   Correspondences   Ordered Sets   Lattices   Graphs   Powersets   Binary Strings   Logic   AIA   Greek   
   
 
 Glossary   Abstracts   Argument   Glossaries   Inquiry Cycle   Legal Relations   Presentations   
   
 
 Elicitation   Glossaries   Goals   i*   SCR   Tracing   
   
 
 Alloy   MSCs   Regular Exprs.   
   
 
 Design Patterns   Javadoc   Java Packages   Java Types   
   
 
 (X)HTML   XML Schemas   XSLT   
 



 



 
i* is an approach developed by Eric Yu and John Mylopoulos
for modelling the organizational context of a software system. 
Recent work with i* has been done by Neil Maiden and others. 
 

 
  Figure 1.  i* diagram key
 
 

 i* diagrams 

 
The nodes and edges in i* diagrams appear in
 Figure 1 . 
 

  Table 1.  Allowed connections
   (Under Construction)  
   Source node   Edge       Destination node 
     goal, task    means-end  goal, soft goal 
     resource      means-end  soft goal 
     soft goal     contribute-to
                                     (+ or −)  soft goal 
      Strategic dependency (SD) 

 
A strategic dependency diagram relates actors with needs
(“dependers”)
to actors with the capability of meeting those needs
(“dependees”). 
The relations are expressed with dependency edges. 
The needs are expressed in terms of goals. 
Yu and Mylopoulos use “dependum” to refer to
what is needed. 
 


 Strategic rationale (SR) 

 
A strategic rationale diagram
describes how actors may achieve goals through tasks. 
Subtasks are linked to their supertasks by task-decomposition edges. 
Alternative ways of accomplishing a task
are linked to the tasks by means-end edges.
Subgoals are linked to the goal they help achieve
by contribute-to edges. 
 


 References 

  Maiden+Manning+2005-grsm 
 
N. A. M. Maiden, S. Manning, S. Jones, and J. Greenwood. 
Generating requirements from systems models using patterns: a case study. 
 Requirements Engineering , 10(4):276–288,
2005. 
 
  Abstract   Academic research has produced many model-based specification and analysis techniques, however, most organisations continue to document requirements as textual statements. To help bridge this gap between academic research and requirements practice, this paper reports an extension to the RESCUE process in which patterns for generating requirements statements from i* system models were manually applied to i* models developed for a complex air traffic control system. The paper reports the results of this application and describes them with examples, the benefits of the approach to the project, and ongoing research to implement these patterns in the REDEPEND modelling tool to make requirements engineers more productive. We review similar work on requirements modelling and expression, and compare our work to it to demonstrate the proposed advance in the state of the art. Finally the paper discusses future uses of requirements generation from model patterns in RESCUE.  
  doi:  10.1007/s00766-005-0010-9  
 
 
 Yu+Mylopoulos1994-erar 
 
Eric S. K. Yu and John Mylopoulos. 
From E-R to ‘‘A-R’’ — Modelling Strategic Actor Relationships for Business Process Reengineering. 
In  ER ’94: Proceedings of the13th International Conference on the Entity-Relationship Approach , pages 548–565, 
1994. 
 
  Abstract   As information systems are increasingly being called upon to play vital roles in organizations, conceptual modelling techniques need to be extended to relate information structures and processes to business and organizational objectives. We propose a framework which focuses on the modelling of strategic actor relationships (‘‘A-R’’) for a richer conceptual model of business processes in their organizational settings. Organizations are viewed as being made up of social actors who are intentional — have motivations, wants, and beliefs — and strategic — they evaluate their relationships to each other in terms of opportunities and vulnerabilities. The framework supports formal modelling of the network of dependency relationships among actors, and the systematic exploration and assessment of alternative process designs in reengineering. The semantics of the modelling concepts are axiomatically characterized. By embedding the framework in the Telos language, the framework can also potentially serve as an early-requirements phase tool in a comprehensive information system development environment.  
    pdf  
 
 
 Yu+Mylopoulos1997-embr 
 
Eric S. K. Yu and John Mylopoulos. 
Enterprise modelling for business redesign: the i* framework. 
 SIGGROUP Bulletin , 18(1):59–63,
1997. 
 
  Abstract   Information technologies and systems are instrumental to the rapid changes in organizations and business enterprises today. In turn, these changes are creating needs for new concepts and methods for information systems engineering. As the cycle of interaction between technological change and business environment change tightens, there is increasing need to relate information systems decisions more directly to business goals and objectives.   Traditional modelling techniques such as those based on structured analysis and entity-relationship modelling focus on the modelling of activities, entities, and flows. These models describe what an enterprise is like, or how it operates, but they cannot express why it is the way it is. The motivations, intents and rationales behind the activities and flows are missing. To complement these existing models, we need new ones that model the strategic relationships among organizational stakeholders, so that their motivations and intents (the ‘‘whys’’) can be reasoned about. These models can be used to assist in the search for innovative solutions to business problems, and to identify what enabling roles information systems can play in new business configurations.   
  doi:  10.1145/271159.271180  
    url  
 
 

  
The  i* wiki . 
 



 

 

 
 
     
      
 
 2010May16Su21:42 
 
 Thomas A. Alspaugh 
  alspaugh 
     at  · ics · uci · edu 
      
 
 


</body> 