  Description 
 
DCOracle2 is a replacement for DCOracle, written
primarily in C.  DCOracle 1 uses OCI 7 bindings
for most Oracle calls, with OCI 8 mixed in for LOB
support.  Oracle 8i disallows mixing of calls
within a statement, and so breaks LOB support.
DCO2 uses entirely OCI 8 calls, and thus
can use LOBs.
 

 New in this Release 
  Beta 3 
  Fixed IN OUT bind widths.  Added ORACLE8i define to NT build for SPs.  Added Z Oracle Stored Procedure objects to ZOracleDA.  Format conversion on IN/OUT binds for SQLT_NUM. Other small changes (see CHANGELOG) 
 Beta 2 
  Fix ZOracleDA attempting to fetch on non-select.  Add explicit C Cursor.close() to break cycle allowing cursor to be deallocated.  Change fetchmany() and fetchall() to return None if no results remain rather than [].  Several
connection/cursor and cursor/procedure cycle deferring actions.  SPARC byteorder
fixes for stored procedures.   
 Beta 1 
 Stored procedure input works properly, cycles in stored procedures removed.
Stored procedures now have meaningful docstrings (describing their parameters).
Type coercion change from a tuple kludge to a TypeCoercion object.  Set ability
(and default) to do static binding for BindingArrays, working around dynamic
fetch occasional NULL bug on Linux.  Batch executemany().  Add backward
compatable dbiRaw and execute modes. 
 Alpha 6 
 Nested Cursors, e.g.  SELECT ENAME, CURSOR(SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE
MGR=7908) FROM EMP WHERE EMPNO=7908) .  API 2.0 type objects. Add
trim() to LobLocators.  Wrap LOB permissions for Zope in ZOracleDA. Change
result on execute w/o results to None, not []. Return statement type code after
execute(). 
 Alpha 5 
 Stored procedure fixes, and debugging enhancements. 
 Alpha 4 
 Stored procedure IN/OUT variables, changes to executemany() 
 Alpha 3 
 Changed ZOracleDA to not use method call to connect().  Partial
stored procedure work 
 Alpha 2 
 Bug fixes, largely packaging, from Alpha 1.  Added SQLT_AFC handler,
SPARC alignment fixes. 
 Alpha 1 
 First www.zope.org release 
  Contents 
 
This release contains both DCOracle2 and a slightly
modified ZOracleDA; it will register as ZOracleDA
would (to silently upgrade Oracle connections) and
thus cannot be run concurrently with ZOracleDA/DCOracle.
 

 Installation 
 
To replace ZOracleDA, untar into lib/python/Products
and make, move ZOracleDA out of lib/python/Products,
and rename lib/python/Products/DCO2 to lib/python/Products/ZOracleDA.
 

 Usage 
 
This release is intended for testing with ZOracleDA
feature compatibility (including LOB support) and is also
intended for general use.
 

 Platforms 
 
NT support has been tested, Microsoft Visual Studio 
project files are included; this has only
received testing with Oracle 8.0 and Oracle 8.1
on Linux, Solaris, and Windows NT; a wider variety of platform experience
is welcomed.
 

 Download 
 
The product is available at
 http://www.zope.org/Members/matt/dco2 .
 

  Matt Kromer   