 Eclipse Download and Installation Instructions<body>

 
 Eclipse Download and Installation (for Python) Instructions  
 
  
  
 Install Python before installing Eclipse. 
  
You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can
  refer to them while downloading and installing Eclipse.
Or, just keep this document in your browser.
You should read each step completely before performing the action that it
  describes.
This document shows downloading and installing Eclipse on MacOS X in Fall 2014.
  
   Eclipse: Version 4.4 (Luna) 
 

The Eclipse download requires about 200 MB of disk space; keep it on your
  machine, in case you need to re-install Eclipse.
When installed, Eclipse requires an additional 200 MB of disk space.
  

  Downloading 
  Click
     
      Eclipse  
    The following page will appear in your browser.
    In this handout we will download  Eclipse Standard 4.4  for Mac OS.
      
       
    It is critical that Java, Python, and Eclipse are either all 32 Bit or are
       all 64 Bit (and only if your Machine/OS supports 64 Bit): I think it
       easiest on Macs to use 64 Bit for everything.

  
   Click the  64-bit  after  Mac Cocoa  for your machine,
       to the right of  Eclipse Standard 4.4  (right under  Eclipse
       Luna R Packages ).
     
    You will see the following page (don't worry about the name of the
      institution to the right of the big downward pointing arrow).
      
       
   Click the big downward pointing arrow underneath the
       Download eclipse-standard-luna-R-macosx-cocoa-x86_64.tar.gz from: 
    The site named here, in purple to the right of the arrow:
       [United States] ibiblio (http)  is the
      random one chosen by the download page this time; yours may differ.
     
    If you see the following pop-up window
      
       
    ensure the  Save File  radio button is depressed and click  OK .
      
    This file should start downloading in your standard download folder.
    This file is about 200 Mb so it might take a while to download fully if you
      are on a slow internet connection (it took me a few minutes over a
      cable modem).
    Don't worry about the exact time as long as the download continues to make
      steady progress.
      
    After the download has finished, terminate the window browsing the Eclipse
      download.

  
   Move this file to a more permanent location, so that you can install Eclipse
      (and reinstall it later, if necessary).
 
   Start the  Installing  instructions directly below.
   
   Installing (for Python) 

 Python and Java should be installed before installing Eclipse 
 
   Unzip  eclipse-standard-luna-R-macosx-cocoa-x86_64.tar.gz  by
      double-clicking it.
     
    Unzipping this file creates a folder named  eclipse ; unzipping
      200 MB can take a few minutes.
    You can leave this folder here or move it elsewhere on your hard disk.

  
   Create an alias on the desktop to to the  eclipse  file in
      this  eclipse  folder:   
    On the Mac, you can
      Control-click the file  eclipse.exe 
      Select the  Make Alias  option.
      Move it to the desktop.
       
    Now you are ready to perform a  one-time only  setup of Eclipse on
      your machine.

  
   Double-click the alias to Eclipse that you just created above.
     
    If the following pop-up window appears
      
       
    click  Open .
      
    The following splash screen will appear
      
       
    and then a  Workspace Launcher  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
    In the  Workspace  text box, your name should appear between
       /Users  and  /Documents , instead of  ellenolshansky 
      (I did this on my wife's Mac).
      
    Leave  unchecked  the 
       Use this as the default and do not ask again  box.
    Although you will use this same workspace for the entire quarter (checking
      projects in and out of it), it is best to see this
       Workspace Launcher  pop-up window each time you start Eclipse, to
      remind you where your workspace is located.
      
    In fact, it is a good idea to create on your desktop an alias to your
      workspace folder; but you must click  OK  (see below) before
      Eclipse creates this folder and you can alias it.

   Click  OK .
     
    Progress bars will appear as Eclipse loads.
      
    Eventually the Eclipse workbench will appear with a  Welcome  tab
      covering it.
      
       
   Terminate (click  X  on) the  Welcome  tab.
     
    You will not see the  Welcome  tab when you start Eclipse again, after
      this first time.

  
   Click  Help  (on the far right of the top toolbar) and then click
       Install New Software...  in its pull-down menu, as shown below.
     
       
    The  Install  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
   Enter the text (or cut/paste from this document)
       http://pydev.org/updates  into the  Work with  text box and
      press  Enter  (if that doesn't work, try
       http://www.pydev.org/updates ).
     
    In a few seconds the information under  Name  should change from  There is no site selected  to  Pending  to
      
       
    Select only the top  PyDev  checkbox; do  NOT  select the 
       PyDev Mylyn Integration (optional)  box. 
    Check before proceeding that the  Install  pop-up window appears as
      
       
   Click  Next &gt; 
     
    A new  Install  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
   Click  Next &gt; 
     
    A new  Install  pop-up window will appear.
      
    Selecet the  I accept the terms of the license agreement  radio button,
      so the window appears as
      
       
   Click  Finish 
     
    An  Installing Software  pop-up window will appear.
    During installation, it will show the various operations it is
      performing and a progress bar for each one.
    Because the installer is fetching various files online, this process might
      take a few minutes.
      
       
    The installation will pause, and  a  Selection Needed  pop-up window
      appears.
  
   Check the box labeled  Brainwy Software; Pydev; Brainwy .
     
    Check before proceeding that the  Install  pop-up window appears as
      
       
   Click  OK 
     
    The installation will finish (showing the final progress bars).
      
    A  Software Updates  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
   Click  Yes 
     
    Eclipse will terminate and restart.
    As you did in step 3, click  OK  to the 
       Workspace Launcher  pop-up window.

  
   Click  Eclipse  (to the right of  Apple  logo on the far left of
     the top tool bar), and then click  Preferences  in its pull-down
     menu, as shown below.
     
       
   Drill down to select the interpreter:
      Disclose  PyDev  by clicking the  triangle  in front of
              PyDev  or double-clicking  PyDev  (after the triangle).
        Disclose  Interpreters  by clicking the  triangle  in front
             of  Interpreters  or double-clicking  Interpreters 
             (after the triangle).
        Select  Python - Interpreter .   
    The  Preferences  pop-up window should appear as follows
     
       
   Click  New...  at the top-right of the top window
     
    A  Select Interpreter  pop-up window appears.  
    Type  python34  in the  Interpreter Name  text box. 
    Type (or cut/paste)  //usr/local/bin/python3  in the
       Interpreter Executable  text box (or browse to this file). 
    The  Select Interpreter  pop-up window should appear as
      
       

  
    Click  OK .
     
    A  Selection needed  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
    Ensure that a check appears in all four checkboxes.

  
   Click  OK .
     
    The  Preferences  pop-up window will be changed to
      
       

   Click  OK .
     
    A  Progress Information  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
    During installation, it will show the various operations it is
      performing and a progress bar for each one.
    Eventually the installation will terminate.
  

   Click  Window  (to the left of  Help  on the far right of the 
      top tool bar), hover over  Open Perspective  in the pull-down
       menu and then click  Other...  in the next pull-down menu.
     
       
    The  Open Perspective  pop-up window will appear.
      
       
   Double-click  PyDev  (third from the bottom)
     
    The label on Eclipse will change from  Java - Eclipse  to
        PyDev - Eclipse , and the  Package Explorer  in the upper-left
       tab will change to  PyDev Package Explorer , and a  PyDev  icon
       will appear to the right of the  Java  icon.
      
       
   Right-click the  Java  icon to the left of the  PyDev  icon
      and select  close 
     
       
    The Eclipse workbench will now have only the  PyDev  icon here and 
      will look like
      
       

   Download the  courselib.zip 
      file.
     
    In the pop-window that appears
      
       
    ensure the  Save File  radio button is depressed and click  OK .
  
    
   Locate the workspace folder created in step 3
      (see  /Users/ yourname /Documents/workspace )
      and copy the  courselib.zip  file into this workspace and unzip it
      there, producing the  courselib  folder; it should should contain a
      bunch of Python  module files (ending in  .py ).
    From time to time you will be asked to put other course-specific Python
      module files into this  courselib  folder; these modules will be
      usable in all Python projects in Eclipse.
 

   Inform Eclipse to use the  courselib  folder in all Python projects.
  Select  Eclipse | Preferences .
    Disclose  PyDev  by clicking the  triangle  in front of
          PyDev  or double-clicking  PyDev  (after the triangle).
    Disclose  Interpreters  by clicking the  triangle  in front
         of  Interpreters  or double-clicking  Interpreters 
         (after the triangle).
    Select  Python - Interpreter .  
       
       Click the  Libraries  tab (leftmost, above the bottom pane)
      Click the  New Folder  button (topmost, right of the bottom pane)
      Browse to the  courselib  folder (added above) in the
           Browse for Folder  pop-up window
         ( /Users/ yourname /documents/workspace/courselib ).
      Click the  courselib  folder selected, and then click  OK 
      Click  Apply  (you will see some progress bars) 
    The   pop-up window should now appear as
      
       
    Notice a fifth entry (ending in  courselib  appears at the bottom of
      the bottom pane named  System PYTHONPATH 
       Cick  OK 
   
   Terminate (click  X  on) the Eclipse window.
  
Eclipse is now installed for Python.
 
   

 </body> 