 The Geometry Junkyard: Toys<body>

 
   
 
  
  
Interlocking Puzzle Pieces and other Geometric Toys 
 
   Astro-Logix 
3d ball-and-stick geometric construction kit.
 
    Delta Blocks .
Hop David discusses ideas for manufacturing building blocks based on
the tetrahedron-octahedron space tiling depicted in Escher's "Flatworms".
 
    Design Science Toys .
 
    Die-cast metal polyhedra 
available for sale from Pedagoguery Software.
 
    Fractiles ,
multicolored magnetic rhombs with angles based on multiples of pi/7.
 
    Happy cubes  and other three-dimensional polyomino puzzles.
 
    Interlocking Puzzles LLC 
are makers of hand crafted hardwood puzzles including burrs,
pentominoes, and polyhedra.
 
    Jovo Click 'n Construct .
Plastic click-together triangular, square, and pentagonal tiles for
building models of polyhedra and polygonal tilings.
Includes a  mathematical model
gallery 
showing examples of shapes constructable from Jovo.
 
    Kadon Enterprises ,
makers of games and puzzles including polyominoes and Penrose tiles.
 
    Lego
Pentominos , Eric Harshbarger.  He writes that the hard part was
finding legos in enough different colors.
See also his
 Lego
math puzzles 
and  pentominoes 
pages.
 
    LiveCube  polycube puzzle building
toy.
 
    Mathematical
lego sculptures  and  Escher Lego , Andrew Lipson.
 
    The MindBlock .
Reassemble a chessboard cut into twelve interlocking polyominos.
 
    Ozzigami  tessellations,
papercraft, unfolded peel-n-stick glitter Platonic solids, and more.
 
    Polydron 
patented polychromatic plastic polygons.
 
    Polymorf 
geometric construction set system created by Rick Engel.
 
    Puzzle World 
gallery of hand-crafted mechanical puzzles.  Includes many geometric
toys and puzzles.
 
    Puzzles
by Eric Harshbarger , mostly involving colors of and mazes on
polyhedra and polyominoes.
 
    The
Puzzling World of Polyhedral Dissections .
Stewart T. Coffin's classic book on geometric puzzles,
now available in full text on the internet!
 
    Qubits , modular geometric building
blocks by architect Mark Burginger, inspired by Fuller's geodesic domes.
 
    Roger's Connection .
Magnetic construction toy, scientific exploration tool,
executive desk toy, magnet learning tool, architectural design tool,
artistic sculpture system, manual dexterity training, and much more! 
(Make geometric shapes out of steel balls and magnet-tipped plastic tubes.)
See also  Simon Fraser's
Roger's Connection gallery .
 
    Rombix  geometric puzzle based on dissections of regular polygons into joined pairs of rhombi.
 
    SpaceBric  building blocks
and Windows software based on a tiling of 3d space by congruent
tetrahedra.
 
    Space Cubes 
plastic geometric modeling puzzle based
on a rectangular Borromean link.
 
    Stardust
Polyhedron Puzzles .  This U.K. company sells unfolded polyhedral
puzzles and space-packing shapes
(including a nice model of the
 Weaire-Phelan space-filling foam )
on card-stock, to cut out and build yourself.
 
    Tessellations ,
a company which makes Puzzellations puzzles, posters, prints, and
kaleidoscopes inspired in part by Escher, Penrose, and Mendelbrot.
 
    Tobi Toys 
sell the
Vector Flexor, a flexible cuboctahedron skeleton, and
Fold-a-form,
an origami business card that folds to form a tetrahedron that can be
used as the building block for more complex polyhedra.
 
    Toys from the Tech
Museum Store .
 
    Zometool .  The 31-zone structural system for constructing
"mathematical models, from tilings to hyperspace projections, as well as
molecular models of quasicrystals and fullerenes, and architectural
space frame structures".
 
    Frank Zubek's
Elusive Cube .  Magnetic tetrahedra connect to form dissections of
cubes and many other shapes.
 
     
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  Send email  if you
know of an appropriate page not listed here.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file. 
 </body> 