 WICS - Women in Information and Computer Sciences - 09/10<body>  

   

 
     HOME  |  ABOUT WICS  |  NCWIT  |  OFFICERS  |  NEWS  |   UPCOMING EVENTS   |  PAST EVENTS   |  JOBS  |  PHOTOS  |  CONTACT  |  LINKS   
   

  

 
   
         
        WICS 2011/2012 - Links 
             UCI Main Page  : The home site for the University of California, Irvine.
                   UCI ICS Website  : All the information you'll need to learn about your major, plan your schedule, and reference your professors.

                UCI ICS Student Affairs Office  : Undergraduate and peer counselors to help you with your major and classes.
                UCI ICS Alumni Chapter:  Be part of the ICS Alumni Chapter after you graduate and particpate in UCI's events to help undergraduates succeed.
                                   UCI Career Center  :
 You can find entry level positions and internships for various majors 
including ICS. There are also workshops you can attend to help you with 
your job searching.
                                 UCI ICS Job Posting  :
 Job Postings for only ICS majors through the school of ICS. The job 
positions have a range from undergraduate to graduate students.
                 Assocation for Women In Technology  (AWT) :
 A large association to help women (and men) of all ages to improve 
communication, furthering professional development, promote education, 
and increase opportunities through networking and programs.
                 Girl's Inc  :
 A non-profit organization for girls to encourage them to have 
confidence in themselves. WICS is currently working with the Girl's Inc 
in Costa Mesa to arrange a volunteer/intern program called Eureka!.
                 Discovery Science Center Digital Lab  :
 Discoverey Science Center has many volunteer opportunities if you're 
interested in high school outreach. They also offer classes there such 
as webdesign and photoshop.
                Information Management Resources Incorporated  (IMRI) :
 Corporation involved with the Information Technology (IT) industry. If 
you're interested in finding a career in IT, check out the website!       MentorNet  :
 Award-winning nonprofit e-Mentoring Network for Women in Engineering 
and Science. The community pairs up undergraduate and graduate students,
 postdocs and untenured faculty with mentors for email-based mentoring 
relationships.

         Want your website to appear on our page? Send an e-mail to  wics.uci.webmaster@gmail.com . 
     
  


 
    

  

</body> 