 Photos are about Events – Ramesh Jain 
	
	 
				 
		 
								 
				   							
		 Search 
		
					  
								 
									Ramesh Jain								 
							 
														 Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher 
																
				 
	 	
		
	    About Ramesh 
   News  
	  Events  
  
  Towards Weaving the Visual Web  
  Research 
   Books  
	  Patents  
	  Presentations  
	  Projects  
	  Research Papers 
	   Computer Vision  
		  Experiential Computing  
		  Multimedia Information Management  
	  
  
  Teaching 
   Current Courses  
	  Past Courses  
  
  Entrepreneurship 
   Current Companies  
	  Past Companies  
  
  Partners 
   Current Students  
	  Past Students  
	  Collaborators  
  
  Professional/Social 
   Services  
	  Recognitions  
	  Interviews  
  
  Personal 
   Affiliations  
	  Education  
	  Favorite Books  
	  Favorite Quotes  
  
  Digital India: A potentially transformative opportunity  
  Navigation    
					 

 
	

 
    	 
    				Photos are about Events    			 
  			 
    			 When you see something interesting happening, you take out your camera, now your mobile phone, and click.  And that becomes your secondary visual memory.  Clicking your phone camera is effortless and costs you almost zero.  So now you take many more photos than you used to just a few years ago.  The only hesitation is the thought that what will people say.  Soon you will never think about other people also — because this will be as common as carrying mobile phones. 
 This is not a secret that photo-sharing has been one of the most popular apps area in the last few months.  The number of photo-sharing apps, led by Instagram and others, on smart phones is growing faster than anything you know or expected. Clearly, there is strong demand for it and if Google + and new Facebook focus are any indication, this will only result in more people sharing more photos.   
 However, only 1 in 10 or even smaller fraction of photos are ever shared.  Like wine, photos become more valuable as they age.  The take you back in time, they remind you of people, events, and places, and they help you reflect and reanalyze things.  With mobile phones, photos are also becoming as important as pen and your notebook used to be for taking notes.  And at the rate people take photos now, they soon face problems in managing those.  Most of my friends request me to send photos that I take at events.  And I confess that I am pretty bad in responding to their requests.  It is not easy to remember to go back fine their photos and send it to them or share those.  So what you do when you get a request to send a photo by a friend — you spend 15 minutes looking for the photo???  How do you usually remember where that photo could be.  It is usually the event — where you were with the person.  Now you need to locate photos of the event.  When thinking about this — it becomes clear that photos are our record of events. 
 In fact, in a true sense photos capture and record events or events are manifested by or come alive in photos.  Just think about how you create albums and you will find that they are based on trips, birthdays, wedding, conferences, concerts, festivals and so on.  Albums are mostly about events. 
 It is surprising that most photo management as well as photo sharing systems do not recognize this important fact.  Most photo sharing and photo organizing systems consider photos, people, places, objects, and events in the deceasing order of importance.  In fact the order should be events, people, objects, places, and photos.  A photo is worthless if it is not linked to an event, a person, an object or a place.  Most important of all:  Photos are about events.  Rememer — Kodak popularized ‘Kodak Moment’ to emphasize that moment in an event. 
							 
								Tagged on:  events ,  Instagram ,  Kodak Moment ,  photo sharing ,  Photos 							 
							  			 
  			 	        			
    			 
    				 By  Ramesh   |
    				  July 6, 2011   |
    				             		  Experiential Computing   |
             	 
    				             		  No Comments   |
             	 		          				
    			 
    		 

  						    ←  Managing Event Information:  A book.  
				  Contextual Circles  →   
			  

	
	
		 
		 Leave a Reply   Cancel reply   			
				  Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  *    Comment     Name  *    
  Email  *    
  Website   
  			
			 
	
 
		  


 
	


  


	    

	   
	   	
	   
	    
				 
			 
				    Copyright © 2017   Ramesh Jain   |  Theme by:   Theme Horse   |  Powered by:   WordPress    
			   Back to Top  		 

	 

</body> 