 
	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
     
		News     
	         
		  Graduates!  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on June 12, 2011 at 6:59 pm 				 
					   
		 Congratulations to Nilmax Moura (M.S.), Robert Simpson (B.S.), and Danielle Song (B.S.). We will miss their contributions and presence in our lab!         
     
    
         
		  Brazilian collaborators  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on June 10, 2011 at 9:40 pm 				 
					
		 Claudia Werner and Chessman Correa from UFRJ and Leo Murta from UFF visited us for a day on their way to South Korea. 
     
    
         
		  ARCS dinner  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on April 22, 2011 at 12:29 pm 				 
					
		 Nick Mangano presents Calico at the annual celebration of ARCS scholarship recipients. Nick is the third SDCL member to receive an ARCS scholarship. 
     
    
         
		  Microsoft SEIF Award  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on April 18, 2011 at 12:21 pm 				 
					
		 We are proud to announce that Microsoft has awarded the SDCL a Microsoft Software Engineering Innovation Foundation Award in support of our work on Calico. 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Lee Martie  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on April 18, 2011 at 12:12 pm 				 
					
		 We are very excited to welcome Lee Martie to the laboratory. He will be joining us this Fall from the Design Intelligence Laboratory at Georgia Tech, where he worked on the GAIA project. 
     
    
    
		         
              « Previous Page  
              
              
         
                    
     
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 