 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  June 13,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         Ingenuity 2016
</strong>
           By Courtney Hamilton</strong>    ICS, School of Engineering celebrate student innovation at fourth annual student technology showcase.    
                    
The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences and the Henry Samueli School of Engineering came together June 1 for the fourth annual “best of” student technology showcase,  Ingenuity 2016 .

  
Held at the  Beckman Center of the National Academies of Sciences and Engineering , the event gives the best student teams from each school—culled from capstone project courses, campus competitions like the Butterworth Product Development and Beall Student Design Competitions, and industry or corporate competitions—the opportunity to demo their hard work to the UCI community.

  
“Ingenuity is intended as a celebration of the activity and technology at UCI,” Ted and Janice Smith Family Foundation Dean of ICS Hal Stern said during opening remarks. “We try to accomplish three different things in one fun-filled night,” he added. Ingenuity 2016 included a keynote address from Broadcom Technical Director and  Raspberry Pi  founder  Eben Upton , a formal ceremony recognizing Ingenuity Award winners for their contributions to the schools, and the opportunity to show off the talented UCI students, according to Stern.

  
Upton doled out lessons learned from building Raspberry Pi—the low-cost, high-performance computer that puts programming and innovation in the hands of young learners—from the ground up during his talk. Growing up in the United Kingdom, Upton noted that he always had access to a BBC microcomputer in his classrooms. “It always booted up with a basic prompt. Users had to choose not to program,” he explained. With smarter tech ubiquity, the reverse is true today. Anyone who wants to tinker with computing, or learn more about it, has to choose to program.

  
The shift, Upton said, led to a decline in people pursuing degrees and careers in computing—something he experienced firsthand as director of studies in computer science at  St. John’s College , Cambridge. “We didn’t teach computing in schools. We recruited from a stream of people who were self-taught,” he said. “What we’ve lost is this stream of self-taught young people who want to become engineers.”

  
This dearth of young engineers led Upton to develop the Raspberry Pi with three criteria in mind: the computer had to be affordable, fun and programmable. He realized the tremendous demand for something like Raspberry Pi after a video on the idea racked up 600,000 views on YouTube in two days. “We’d promised 600,000 people we’d build a $25 computer,” he said with a laugh.

  
Today, Raspberry Pi enables people of all ages to explore computing for as little as $5 a computer. With these lessons in mind, Upton left the audience with three suggestions: “Try and do audacious things. Be conservative. Incrementalism and conservatism are at the heart of good engineering.” He also highlighted persistence as a key trait, concluding his keynote with a tongue-in-cheek joke: “Go do audacious stuff, conservatively.”

  
Henry Samueli School of Engineering Dean Gregory Washington introduced the Ingenuity awardees, which went to  Broadcom Foundation  President Paula Golden and ICS alumnus Jon Teichrow, now senior vice president of research and development at  Quality Systems . “This doesn’t happen without the support of dedicated people. It’s not just their material resources, but their time and input,” Dean Washington said of the awardees. Golden was recognized for promoting inclusion, equity and access through the Broadcom Foundation, while Teichrow was recognized for his contributions to ICS. Sheldon Razin, chairman of the board for Quality Systems, accepted the award on Teichrow’s behalf.

  
Following the night’s formal presentation, students highlighted their projects on stage before taking their place at demonstration tables at the outdoor reception. Below, you’ll find the exemplar projects showcased this year.

  
 Signal Strength Heat Map App  
Sponsored by data analytics firm M2Catalyst, the app allows users to build a map of their signal strength in various locations. The app includes signal history and signal speed test verification features. 
 Team members: Briana Tu, Isley Gao, Jason White, Nathan Benjamin, Max Uzoukwu

  
 Fuel Cell Data Center  
With world energy demands skyrocketing in the information age, data centers require a tremendous amount of power. This project uses solar power to renewably power data centers and in effect, the internet.
 Team members: Gabrielle Cobos, Aaron Cheng, Bismarck Chiang, Michael Crowley, Allen Schellerup, John Stansberry

  
 HyperXite  
As part of the  Hyperloop Pod Competition  hosted by SpaceX, Juliana Andrews and her fellow competitors designed the HyperXite pod, which took fifth place overall in the competition and first place in the Air Levitation category.
 Team member: Juliana Andrews

  
 iLost: Indoor Navigation System  
iLost is a GPS navigation system compatible with indoor environments, like shopping malls and universities, which is user-friendly and low in power consumption.
 Team members: Haoran Ma, Jingliang Liao, Xiao Chen, Alan Zhang

  
 CavernTavern  
Built for the computer game science program’s two-quarter capstone project course, CavernTavern combines two game genres in a fast-paced time-management scenario. The game took first place at IEEE’s  GameSig  competition, as well as the award for Intel’s Best Game by a Woman-Led Team.
 Team members: Cecilia Bishton, Chris Fulgencio, Jimmy Lee, Warren Urbina, Greg Urbina, Matt Eckstein

  
 Osteoforge Medical  
The team behind Osteoforge Medical has engineered a groundbreaking solution in bone fixation and small bone fragment hardware. Their 3D-printed “bone” hardware is fully customizable, non-toxic, fracture resistant and bioresorptive—meaning it can be safely implanted in the body.
 Team members: Frank Adams, Michael Crowley, Matheus Felix, Stoney Middleton, Adam Wooten

  
 SonderVR  
Advised by software company Codazen, Robert A. and Barbara L. Kleist Professor of Informatics Gillian Hayes, and Informatics Ph.D. student Louanne Boyd, the team behind SonderVR offers virtual reality therapy experiences for people with Autism Spectrum Disorder. The application provides an accessible way for users to learn and practice social skills.
 Team members: Erick Kusnadi, Joy Chen, Anuj Shah, Yolanda La, Tia Moore

  
 Syntr Health Tech  
Diabetic foot ulcers affect more than 7.5 million people today, with 30 percent of untreated patients requiring amputation and 50 percent of those who undergo amputation losing their lives within five years. Syntr Health Tech offers a new prevention alternative to such invasive and difficult treatments. Their solution incorporates centrifugal microfluidics to process fat, which activates dormant stem cells in the patient and promotes healing.
 Team members: Ahmed Zobi, Justin Stovner, Hugo Salas, David Duarte

  
 Tag: Lose Your Worries   Tag  is a small, affordable device that allows users to track anything it’s attached to via a smartphone. Tag uses a Bluetooth chip which piggybacks on the phone's GPS to relay its location to the cloud, allowing users to report items lost or stolen to other users.
 Team members: Neeraj Kumar, Ali Shahbaz, Khwaja Ahmed

  
 ActivATE Dashboard  
Developed for Astronics Test Systems, the ActivATE Dashboard allows users to remotely connect to data via a user-friendly, cross-platform dashboard. Such data would otherwise be limited to large, non-portable machines and clean rooms.
 Team members: Michelle Kim, Danny Magsalin, Kenny Pham, Glenn Pittman, Sarah Tracy

  
 A Dashboard in Paris  
Working with ICS alum Tim Kashani and the production team behind Broadway musical An American in Paris, the team behind A Dashboard in Paris created an interface that measures engagement with the musical, including ticket sales, ad sales, web and social media statistics.
 Team members: Zach Anderson, Lauren Dimailig, Marissel Llavore, Gessica Tan-Torres, Maddy Surjani





   
   — Story by Courtney Hamilton   




  

 
View photos from the event on  Google Photos . Also, check out all the videos from Ingenuity 2016 below:

  




                      Ingenuity 2016
    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Jain receives 2016 IEEE MultiMedia Best Department Article Award

              
                Next &gt; 
                 UPDATE: Franz, Dourish formally recognized as ACM Fellows

             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 