 Electronic System Test Workshop, Call for Papers<body>
    
     


  
   
       

        Call For Papers</strong>    IEEE Electronic System Test Workshop 2005</strong>    
   

      
        
       ESTW Home 
	 
       Call for Papers 
	  
       Paper Submission 
     
 



   
 


  
        November 10-11, Austin, TX, 2005</strong>    In conjunction with the International Test Conference</strong> 
 

 

 

Printable   Call for Papers  

 

The objective of the Electronic Systems Test Workshop (ESTW) is to
bring together researchers in all of the fields related to the test of
entire systems. The heterogeneous nature of electronic system design
calls for coordination between different research communities in order
to address the system test problem. Currently research in each related
field is performed by largely distinct research communities including
digital IC test, mixed-signal test, embedded systems test,
hardware/software co-simulation, and software test. As a result, there
has been little effort towards the development of a coherent science
of system test. This workshop is intended to be a forum for the broad
collaboration required to establish a research foundation for the
field of system test.  

  

The topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

    Diagnosis : Resolution vs. Repair Cost
       System-level Fault Tolerance
       Self-Repairing Systems
       Embedded System Testing
       System-Level Built-In Self-Test
       Hardware/Software Co-simulation
       Testing of Concurrent/Globally Asynchronous Systems
       System Fault Characterization
       System-Level Functional Test
       Integration Testing
       On-line System Test
       Testing of Real-Time Systems

  


ESTW submissions must be made electronically in PDF format through the
ESTW web site. Reference the   ESTW web page   for
instructions on electronic submissions.

 

Authors should submit one PDF file which should contain the
complete paper including the title and abstract. This file should
not be more than 4 pages.

  

The proceedings of this workshop will not be published. Proceedings
  will be distributed to workshop attendees.

  

  AUTHOR'S SCHEDULE  

    Deadline for submissions:   July 8, 2005
       Notification of acceptance: August 5, 2005
       Deadline for camera ready version:  September 9, 2005


  



Please feel free to contact the program chair   Ian G. Harris   if you have any
questions.

 

  General Chair:     Tony Ambler,   University of Texas Austin

  

  Program Chair:     Ian G. Harris,   University of California Irvine


  

   
    
  
</body> 