 Join us virtually<body>


 

  

   
    university of california, irvine  
 	 

	  
    bren school of ics  
 	 

			   » Home  

				  » Changing Lives  

				  » RFID  

				  » Dedication  

				  » Bren Hall  
			 
				  » The Gift  

				  » The School  

			  

		   
			 Join us virtually  » 

			
             
			   
  
  
Donald Bren Hall in Second Life.
 
 

  
  A virtual Donald Bren Hall ( view a gallery of snap shots ) has been created in Second Life by Crista Lopes' students to allow visitors to share in our open house no matter where in the physical world they are located.  
 Once there you can tour the building and watch videos highlighting the life changing research done by our faculty and students. 
 Follow the instructions below on how to create a character in Second Life and visit TechCoast, our virtual home. 
 Second Life is a 3-D virtual world entirely built and owned by its residents. Since opening to the public in 2003, it has grown explosively and today is inhabited by a total of 5,905,638 people from around the globe. 
 Several Bren School faculty are researching social interaction in the virtual world, as well as conducting classes and holding research group meetings. 
  
  Create a character   » 
   </strong>To create a Second Life account, go to the  Second Life web site , and complete the registration form  
  
  Download the Second Life client    » 
   </strong>Once you have an account, you will need to follow the instructions for downloading and installing the Second Life client.  
 The client is available for Windows, Mac OS X and Linux and provides the user interface you will use to  participate in Second Life.  
  
  Getting to Donald Bren Hall » 
   </strong>The first time you login, you will be placed in Orientation Island, where you must pass 4 very simple  
  tutorials before you can roam freely.  
 After that, you can finally visit the Bren School  island and Donald Bren Hall by pulling out the map and searching for TechCoast and then choosing "Teleport".  
 Alternatively, you can open a web browser and type this in the address line: secondlife://TechCoast. 
    Virtual Donald Bren Hall photo gallery » 
    
  
  
Under Construction Indefinitley, even in cyberspace.
 
 
</strong> 

   


 
  
  
Donald Bren Hall on TechCoast Island in Second Life.
 
 


   


 
  
  
 TechCoast Island's amphitheater. 
 



   


 
  
  
 Scenic TechCoast Island. 
 


		     


		 
  
   
  
      
  © 2007 The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences 
  University of California, Irvine 
 6210 Donald Bren Hall 
 Irvine, CA 92697-3425 
  info@ics.uci.edu  
  
   
  
 
  
</body> 