 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  December 14,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         ICS alumnus Tim Kashani to be honored at 2017 Lauds &amp; Laurels event</strong>
          
                    
ICS alumnus Tim Kashani ’86 will be honored with a Distinguished Alumni Award at the 2017 Lauds &amp; Laurels awards ceremony on March 30, 2017. Lauds &amp; Laurels is the UC Irvine  Alumni Association ’s oldest awards ceremony, a tradition that has recognized more than 784 members of the UCI community for their service to the university, the community or their profession.

  
Kashani, who was inducted into the ICS Hall of Fame in 2015, is co-founder of Apples and Oranges Studios and IT Mentors, as well as a recognized Broadway producer. After finishing his undergraduate degree and MBA at UC Irvine, Kashani found success as a young entrepreneur with IT Mentors, a training and consulting company that eventually hit it big with a contract with the financial services corporation Morgan Stanley. It was then that Kashani was able to pursue his show-business dreams—opening his own production company,  Apples and Oranges Studios , with his wife, Pamela. Together they have won acclaim as producers of the three Tony Award-winning Broadway musicals:  Memphis ,  Hair  and, their latest production,  An American in Paris .
 
  
The Lauds &amp; Laurels celebration will take place at an as-of-yet undisclosed location on campus, however the venue promises to showcase one of UC Irvine’s state-of-the art new facilities. This year’s theme is “The Distinguished Anteater Dining Society.” Table sponsorships and individual tickets are  on sale now . Net proceeds from the event will support the UCI Alumni Association Endowed Student Scholarship Fund.
 
  
 Read the official UCI  news release  to learn more about the event and the prominent 19 UCI alumni who will be honored at the 47th Lauds &amp; Laurels Award Ceremony. 





  
  
					





                     ICS alumnus Tim Kashani to be honored at 2017 Lauds &amp; Laurels event    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Ito named to Cartoon Network's STEAM Team


              
                Next &gt; 
                 Two ICS Ph.D. students receive 2017 UCI Public Impact Fellowships
             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 