 Christian Medeiros Adriano<body>

 
     


  
   Christian M. Adriano   
  

      
  
    Home    
     
    Blog    
     



     M.Sc., PMP
 ACM and IEEE Member    adrianoc [at] uci.edu    christian.adriano[at]ieee.org    Linked-in   
 GitHub   
 Google
Scholar    Professional Service   SEWORLD  Moderator 2014 - 2016   


     
 


 I have been particularly curious about the large amount of information people gather to accomplish complex tasks (i.e., tasks with many internal and external dependencies). Take for instance locating faults in software. People usually investigate many more system components than the ones involved in a failing execution or inspect various types of unrelated source code fragments while searching for one specific software vulnerability.
 

 One alternative to alleviate people's work has been to divide tasks with machines (e.g., automated tool and predictive analytics). In the case of software, a combined static and dynamic analysis tool can process most of the simple (but numerous) potentially suspicious components. Humans are only prompted to make a decision for the outcomes that the machine produced with a low level of confidence.

  Although combining humans and machines works well for some tasks (e.g., labeling and pattern recognition), interesting challenges emerge when dealing with complex tasks. For instance, how to partition a complex task into simpler tasks? How to handle tasks dependencies so tasks can be executed independently and in parallel? What types of tasks are amenable to be automated? For which tasks humans can effectively train machines to ameliorate their performance? In doing so, what types of trade-offs emerge among metrics of quality, speed, cost, and variability (risk)? 
 

 I explored some of these questions during my Masters at the University of California Irvine. My studies focused on the use of questions and answers to locate faults in software (more details 
   here ). 

  If you are interested in collaborating, please contact me! Throughout my career I have been very fortunate to work with a number of brilliant people.
 


 
 
 
 

</body> 