 
	adrianoc – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
		
 	   	  		 Author Archive 
 	  
				 
				  Consuelo’s ICSE-2016 presentation  

				 
                	 May 17, 2016   Consuelo presenting our research* on Crowd Design in ICSE crowdsourcing workshop (CSI-SE-2016).   * Toward Microtask Crowdsourcing Software Design Work Authors: Edgar R.Q. Weidema, Consuelo López, Sahand Nayebaziz, Fernando Spanghero and André van der Hoek  Photograph taken by Thomas La Toza (thanks!) 
				 

				   Posted in   conference ,  Travel  |     Comments Off  on Consuelo’s ICSE-2016 presentation    

			 

				 
				  SDCL team in data science hackathon  

				 
                	 May 17, 2016   Thomas and Christian teamed up with undergraduate students Sreeja, Sid, and Chris to develop a tool that helps visualize mobility patterns of devices and apps on the city of New York. More about our project here: Tool wiki Tired happy faces after coding for 28 hours straight. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on SDCL team in data science hackathon    

			 

				 
				  Affinity diagram session!  

				 
                	 March 15, 2016   We have just categorized a few dozen sketches produced by a crowd of designers. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Affinity diagram session!    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Gabriel!  

				 
                	 June 15, 2015   Gabriel is an undergrad student who will be working on CrowdCode with Arturo, Fabio, and Thomas. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Gabriel!    

			 

				 
				  End of Quarter Lunch  

				 
                	 June 15, 2015   All together to celebrate the end of a very busy quarter . Summer quarter is promising. Many projects going on and lab full of motivated people. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on End of Quarter Lunch    

			 

				 
				  Congratulations Thomas!  

				 
                	 June 9, 2015   Thomas accepted a tenure-track position as a Assistant Professor at the George Mason University. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Congratulations Thomas!    

			 

				 
				  The SDCL in ICSE 2015  

				 
                	 June 9, 2015   Thomas presented two papers in ICSE [1][2] and co-organized the second International Workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSISE-2015) André presented a position paper [3] and was part of the panel titled “The Future of Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering”. [1] Borrowing from the crowd: A study of recombination in software design competitions, TD LaToza, M […] 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on The SDCL in ICSE 2015    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Iago and Nathan!  

				 
                	 June 9, 2015   Iago Moreira and Nathan Martins are joining us for the Summer. Nathan has just finished his one year interchange program in North Dakota State University. Iago is half way through his program in Rochester Institute of Technology. They are both sponsored by the Brazilian Science without Borders program. .. and they are already working with […] 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Iago and Nathan!    

			 

				 
				  Lee’s MSR 2015 talk  

				 
                	 May 16, 2015   Lee has just presented his paper “Sameness: An Experiment in Code Search”. 
				 

				   Posted in   conference  |     Comments Off  on Lee’s MSR 2015 talk    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Edgar!  

				 
                	 April 16, 2015   Edgar is a new master student joining the lab. He is currently interested in investigating approaches to crowdsource software design. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Edgar!    

			 

		        
		         
              
              Next Page »  
              
         
                
	 
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 