 WICS First General Spring Quarter Meeting – Women in Information and Computer Sciences 
        
         
                 

                     
                         

                            
                            
                            

                            
                                                              

                         

                            
                             
                                    

                                        Home  
  About 
   What We Do  
	  Current Officers 
	   Previous Officers  
	  
  
  Events 
   Events Calendar  
	  Weekly Blogs  
	  init (together)  
  
  Join Us! 
   Membership Signup 
	   Apply to WICS Committee  
	  
	  Mentorship Program  
	  Project Development 
	   Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)  
		  Android App Projects (Winter 2014)  
		  PowerPoint Slides  
	  
  
  Contact Us 
   Contact Form  
	  Support Us  
  
                                   
                                  
                             

                     

                 
             

            
 

           
     

        
         
            
             
                 
                     Women in Information and Computer Sciences  A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world.                  
             
                
         
     

     
         
         Become a Member  Mentorship program          
     
 
         
         
             

                            
                 WICS First General Spring Quarter Meeting 
                          
                                
                                         

            
               WICS Meeting    by admin 

            
                        on 04/14/2014 

                                
                                
                                 The first general meeting of the quarter was held on Thursday, April 3rd. With the last quarter wrapped up with the Android Development workshops, this quarter brings more projects, information sessions, and social events for members to look forward to! 
 In terms of professional development, WICS will be holding a total of 5  Python Project  Meetings on Mondays at 6:30pm. There will also be a couple tech talks and tours, such as the Western Digital Tour, The Portal Open House, and the WITI Talk on Agile Development. There are also quite a few social events planned for WICS members to network and socialize with other students. A few events, just to name, are the ICS Quarterly Potluck, Bowling, and the SWE &amp; Phi Sigma Rho Mixer. 
 Some major events of this quarter are the  CWIC SoCal , ICS Day, and  HackUCI ! Check out more information on our  events calendar  and our Facebook page. Also, if you want to be more involved with WICS and interested in writing weekly blogs and recaps of the events, fill out this  form  and you will get an email with more information! 
                            
   Share this:        Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)        Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)        
 
	  Related  
 
                                  

                             
         
     

         
                 
                     
                                                         
                                                                             
                                             
                 

                 
                     
                         
                             
                                 
                                     Copyright © 2017 Women in Information and Computer Sciences. Powered by  WordPress . 
                                     Designed by  myThem.es . 
                                 
                             
                         
                     
                 
             

         
	 
</body> 