 Tangencies: Inversion<body>
 
 
   
 
   Tangencies : Inversion 
 

 Inversion is a very useful symmetry operation on circles, generalizing 
mirror reflection through a line.  An inversion is performed with respect 
to a particular center point and choice of scale; then each point in the 
plane is transformed to another point, forming the same angle to the center 
but with distance inversely proportional to its original distance.

  The center and scale can be specified as a single circle (shown in red 
in the animation below).
To invert a point outside this circle, such as the blue one in the bottom 
right of the animation, draw a circle (yellow) having as its 
diameter the segment from the given point to the inversion circle's center;
this circle crosses the inversion circle in two points; connect those 
points by a line and also draw the perpendicular line from the given point to the 
inversion center (also yellow).  These two lines cross at the inverse of 
the point.  To invert a point inside the circle, simply reverse these steps.
The animation below depicts several geometric figures 
(blue) and their images (green) under inversion through the red circle. 

    

 

 The key properties of inversion are that it transforms circles to 
circles, and preserves the angles of crossings between circles; in 
particular inversion preserves the tangencies of a collection of circles, 
such as the  three tangent circles  shown 
in the animation.  Note that the blue line through two points is inverted into a circle, 
through the center of the inversion.  When interpreting geometric figures 
using inversion, lines should be viewed as infinite-radius circles that go 
through a special "point at infinity" which is the image under inversion of 
the inversion circle's center.

  Many geometric constructions and proofs can be simplified by using 
inversion to transform the figure into a more symmetric situation.

     
Animation created by  Cinderella . 
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Last update: . 
 </body> 