 Evaluation/Report - UAI '08 Workshop: Probabilistic Reasoning Systems  
     


 
 Search: 
 

   Login    


   Evaluation    Report  
  


   FrontPage    RecentChanges    FindPage    HelpContents    Evaluation/Report  
    

   Immutable Page    Comments    Info    Attachments   

 
     More Actions: 
     

    
   
   
  Results from the Probablistic Inference Evaluation of UAI'08 
     
  A. Darwiche, R. Dechter, A. Choi, V. Gogate, and L. Otten 
     This page describes the Probabilistic Inference Evaluation that was held at UAI 2008. The original motivation, goals, and setup are described in the  workshop CFP  and the  evaluation CFP . Below we give the details of the evaluation setup and the results obtained.       The  organizers  wish to thank all the teams and their members for participating in the evaluation. All teams are to be commended as the success of this evaluation was crucially dependent on each and every one of the teams. All the teams did very well (as the results below show). The co-chairs also wish to thank the significant help provided by the graduate student organizers.       The presentation given at UAI'08 is also available here as  ppt slides .  The information in the presentation is also organized and elaborated on in the pages below.       
  The Evaluation Setup 
        Evaluation description : This is the original call for participation, which includes the setup of the evaluation and the task definitions.        Evaluation environment : This describes the system on which the evaluation was performed.        Benchmarks and benchmark descriptions : This page contains the Bayesian and Markov networks used in the evaluation, available for download, with summary descriptions.         
  Participation 
        Solver descriptions : a list of participants and solvers evaluated.         
  Results 
       MPE  results        Exact PR (probability of evidence)  results        Exact MAR (variable marginals)  results        Approximate PR (probability of evidence)  results        Approximate MAR (variable marginals)  results          
  Organization 
        Organization          
  Previous Evaluations 
     The first evaluation of probabilistic reasoning systems was presented at  UAI'06 .        Evaluation/Report  (last edited 2013-08-15 02:28:11 by  cv107022 ) 

  
  
   Immutable Page    Comments    Info    Attachments   

 
     More Actions: 
     

     MoinMoin Powered    Python Powered    GPL licensed    Valid HTML 4.01  
  </body> 