 ICS-H197 Fall Quarter 2014 

 

  I&amp;C  Sci  (ICS) H197 — Honors
Seminar — Fall 2014      

       

  Please see also the  ICS Honors Program Website .    

       

 

  

   Current Announcements:      

         

   o   
    Please
send me soon your requested date and time for your practice technical talk,
hopefully within a week (by 12 Nov.).  
 Also, please send me a title and abstract shortly.  

   o   
    Please
attend ICS-90 in the HSLH 100A room, which is for juniors and seniors (the BS3
1200 room is for freshmen and sophomores).  

   o   
    Current
announcements will appear here, at top-level, for quick and easy inspection.  

     

 

  

  Place:
 ICS-259  (building  302  on the  UCI
campus map  )  
Time: Wednesday 12:00noon-12:50pm     

  Faculty research lectures:
Co-located with ICS-90, Wednesday 5:00-6:00pm,    in  BS3 1200  (building  519  on the  UCI campus    map ); overflow room with streaming
video in  HSLH 100A 
(building  501  on the  UCI campus map )    

  [NOTE: Some ICS-90 meetings will not
involve faculty research lectures, and can be skipped.    See schedule as it develops (available
at the bottom of  this
URL ). The faculty research lectures are 5-5:30pm and 5:30-6pm, which you
are obliged to attend if possible.  
 The time slot 6-6:20pm is reserved for advice to freshmen, which you may
skip. Please attend in the HSLH 100A room, which is for juniors and seniors
(the BS3 1200 room is for freshmen and sophomores).]    

  Two
people primarily oversee the ICS Honors Program. The  Honors Program Advisor,  currently Rick Lathrop, is the faculty
member in charge of the program. The  Honors
Program Counselor,  currently Jessica Shanahan, will help orient students
and track their progress. Feel free to ask us any questions about the Honors
Program.    

  Instructor/ICS Honors Program
Advisor: Richard Lathrop  
Office hours: Wednesdays 1:00-2:00pm, or anytime by appointment, in DBH-4224    

  Email:     rickl@uci.edu     

  (If you send email, please
put “ICS-H197” somewhere in the Subject line.)    

       

  ICS Honors Program Counselor:
Jessica Shanahan  
Office hours: By appointment, in ICS-   352       

  Email:  shanahan@uci.edu     

  (If you send email, please
put “ICS-H197” somewhere in the Subject line.)    

  

   

  Goal:      

  ICS H197 provides an opportunity for undergraduate honors students
in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences to learn about
the research taking place in the School and to begin to get involved with this
research. The major purpose of this course is to help you learn what sort of
research is going on, which people do what, and how to get connected with a
research project. The course will also provide a general introduction to the
scientific and technical research enterprise, including the research
literature, how to give a successful technical talk, the responsible conduct of
research, research intellectual property, and research funding ( grantsmanship  and entrepreneurship)  . Various
enrichment activities include a library-based introduction to searching the
research literature, faculty panel on improving your graduate school
applications, and the opportunity to practice and improve technical talk
presentation skills in a live talk to the class.    

  One
of your major goals in this course is to gain an understanding of what research
is being pursued in the School and what areas might be of interest to you for
your project. This goal is  crucial,  since it should
help you complete your next goal, selection of your faculty advisor. Remember
that the arrangement must be mutually acceptable, so there is no guarantee that
the first faculty member you talk to will say yes; it may be, for example, that
they have no suitable project in mind at the time you ask.    

  It
is not imperative that you begin your research immediately next quarter if your
schedule for graduation allows you enough time. However, there are some
important advantages to starting fairly soon, and we encourage you to begin by
spring quarter. Starting early gives you more flexibility with regard to
finishing the rest of your degree requirements, especially if you want to
continue the research for more than two quarters. Also, students often find
that those faculty members who have supervised their honors research project
are good sources for letters of recommendation; they will be in the best
position to comment on your ability if you are well into your research project.    

  

   

  Please Note:      

   (1)   
    Two types of students take this course: students
in the ICS Honors Program (ICSHP), and students in the  Campuswide 
Honors Program (CHP). In many ways the requirements are the same for both types
of students: you are to select a faculty advisor, do two or more quarters of
research with that advisor, and produce a report which is considered to be of
honors quality. However, students in the  Campuswide 
Honors Program should discuss their plans with counselors in the CHP, in order
to make sure that they are meeting the requirements of that program.    

   (2)   
    We are in the process of transitioning the ICS
H197 class into a more flexible largely-online course oriented more along the
lines of "Introduction to Undergraduate Research."    Please help develop and debug the new
format and content.    We'll work out
the details as we go along.      

 

  

  Class Setup:      

  This
course is graded Pass/Not Pass, and the principal formal requirement is that
you attend and participate. You must read (at least) one research paper by an
ICS faculty member, and attend (at least) one ICS research talk (see the ICS
Calendar for schedule; this is  in addition  to attending ICS-90).    

  Some
of the class exercises may involve students giving feedback to fellow students,
and your active participation is necessary for everyone to get the most benefit
from this. Occasional absences are inevitable given busy schedules, and will be
excused on a case-by-case basis; make sure you sign the attendance sheet each
class period you attend.    

  ICS H198: Honors Research    

  To
complete the honors program you must do two quarters of independent, supervised
work (ICS 198) with your faculty advisor. (In some cases, your advisor might
ask you to take a graduate course to substitute for the first quarter.) Passing
the 198s does not necessarily guarantee successful completion of the honors
program, however. For the ICSHP, the thesis report on your honors work must be
certified by your faculty advisor and by the program advisor to be of honors
quality. (Again, students in the CHP should keep in touch with counselors in
that program about the requirements.)    

   o         students    majoring in
ICS or CS can count completion of two ICS H198s as one project course.    

   o         students    majoring in
CSE can count CSE 181ABC as one of the ICS H198s required for the Honors
Program.    

   o         students    majoring in
CSE can count  Engr  H199 as one of the ICS H198s
required for the Honors Program.     

  

   

  Recommended books:      

 William
Strunk, Jr., and E. B. White,   The    Elements
of Style , MacMillan, New York.  

  Robert A. Day (ed.),  How to Write and Publish a Scientific
Paper,  Oryx Press, 1998.   

 Joseph
M. Williams,  Style: Ten Lessons in Clarity and Grace,  Harper-Collins,
1989.  

 Dale
Carnegie,   The    Quick and Easy Way to
Effective Speaking: Modern Techniques for Dynamic Communication , Pocket
Books, New York, 1977.  

 Robert
M.  Woelfle  (ed.),   A   
New Guide for Better Technical Presentations,  IEEE Press, 1992.  

 

  

      Syllabus:      

  The following represents a preliminary syllabus. Some changes in the
lecture sequence may occur due to earthquakes, fires, floods, wars, natural
disasters, unnatural disasters, or the discretion of the instructor based on
class progress.    

  Background Reading and Lecture Slides will be changed or revised as the
class progresses at the discretion of the instructor.    

      Week 1:       

                     Wed., 8 Oct., Introduction to (1) the ICS Honors Program, (2) ICS
Research Areas, and (3) the Scientific and Technical Research Literature.      

         

                 Homework
#1, due Wed., 15 Oct.:     

    Find and read a research
paper by an ICS Faculty Member.            

   o   
     Make sure the paper
already will be indexed in the literature (published at least 6 months ago in a
major venue).     

   o   
      Bring your paper to MRC-164 at the Ayala Science Library
on Wed., 15 Oct.          

   o   
      If you already have a
research advisor and topic, this research paper must be from an entirely
different research area.          

   o   
     The intent is to broaden your exposure
to ICS research.     

         

   Background material:     

                   ICS Research
Areas.       

                   ICS Research
Centers.       

                   ICS Research
Highlights.       

                   ICS
Calendar.       

                   ICS Faculty.       

                  Literature overview.  [ PDF ;
 PPT ]     

                  Technical writing.  [ PDF ]         

         

   Week 2:     

                     Wed., 15 Oct., meet in   MRC-164 
at the Ayala Science Library  (to right as you face library from Aldrich
Park)    .          

                  Introduction to Searching the Research Literature, by Julia  Gelfand , ICS and Engineering librarian.      

         

                               Bring your ICS faculty research
paper to MRC-164.   
      

   o   
     Your challenge: Find your paper in the
literature databases using the online search tools.       

   ·         
    Pretend you didn’t know it existed beforehand, but need to
find it --- Treasure Hunt!    

         

                 Homework
#2, due Wed., 22 Oct.:     

     Summary, Point, &amp; Question about your paper.       [ Instructions ;  Guide ]     

   o   
     Email your 1-page Summary
to Dr. Lathrop by Wed., 22 Oct.         

         

   Week 3:     

                     Tue., 21 Oct., meet
noon-1pm in DBH-6011.         NOTE DIFFERENT DAY --- TUESDAY --- DUE TO CONFLICT WITH FACULTY MEETINGS.      

                  ICS Faculty Panel on Improving your Grad School Applications.      

         

   o   
     Students with time
conflicts: Watch the video on the SAO website later. [link will appear here]     

     View the US
Bureau of Labor Statistics chart of education, income, and unemployment (click
here).        

         

                 Homework
#3, due Wed., 29 Oct.:     

                  Identify
      five grad schools you might apply
to.    For each school, identify one
professor there with whom you might work.      

   o   
     Email  your
list to Dr. Lathrop by Wed., 29 Oct.        

   o   
    The reason for this requirement is so that when you write your
Statement of Purpose for each school, you will be able to mention at least one
professor  *from that school*  who
interests you.    

   o   
    Some professors will do a global string search for their name
through all of the applicant's Statements of Purpose, and then preferentially
read those applications that mention their name.    

   o   
    Thus, if you want to improve the chances that your application
actually will be read seriously, it is helpful to you to mention names of
professors at that school who interest you.    Of course, if you mention a long list of
names it will be obvious spam, so mention no more than one to three. Also, briefly
mention something personal that attracts your interest about each, again to
indicate that it isn’t just impersonal spam.    

   o   
    These remarks apply mainly to Ph.D. applications.    M.S. applications usually do not receive
as much carefully individual scrutiny as do Ph.D. applications.    

   o   
      Even if you currently do not
intend to apply to graduate school, you still must attend the Panel and do the
homework.         If you ever change your mind later in
your career, after you know more than you do now, you will want to be properly
prepared.       

         

   Week 4:     

                 Wed.,
29 Oct.,  Meet in ICS-259
rest of quarter .  How to Give a Successful Technical
Talk.      

                                   How to Give a Successful
Technical Talk.       

                               Tree Talk.       

         

   Homework #4, Due Wed., 5 Nov.:     

    Identify three interesting ICS
research areas, and three interesting professors in each.     
[ Instructions ]     

   o   
     Email  your
1-page Summary to Dr. Lathrop by Wed., 5 Nov.     The point to this
exercise is to show you that you have very broad interests, and that you can
find many ICS professors who might sponsor interesting research.   
     

   o   
      If you already have a
research advisor and topic, all three research areas must be entirely
different.         The intent is to broaden your exposure
to ICS research in general.     

         

   Background material:         

                              Talk Tips .     

                               10 Talking Points   .      

                             Example
talk:  Intelligent Systems and Molecular
Biology .   [ Short
version for ICS-90 ]     

                              Example archived student talks.      

       

   Week 5:     

         

                  Wed ., 5 Nov., Responsible Conduct of
Research.         

                                On Being a
Scientist Video.        Authors:  </strong>Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public
Policy, National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, and
Institute of Medicine 

                               Responsible
Conduct of Research.     
 Presentation Material Credit:  On Being a Scientist: A Guide to
Responsible Conduct in Research , Third Edition, The National Academies;
Michael  Kalichman , Director, UC San Diego Research
Ethics Program; Said  Shokair , Director, UCI UROP; ICS
Honors Program by Rick Lathrop, Director, ICS Honors Program. 

     

                            You learned the basics in
kindergarten:    Don’t lie,
don’t cheat,  don’t  steal.    

                                        *
Don’t lie:    Don’t make
up false data or otherwise falsify results.    

                                        *
Don’t cheat:    Don’t
misrepresent your data as something it is not or as better than it is.    

                                        *
Don’t steal:    Don’t use
the words or data of others without proper credit and citation; don’t
plagiarize.    

                             More complicated cases may require you to
consult for advice and disclose conflicts of interest so they can be managed.     

                              When in doubt, seek advice and disclose conflicts.      

     

                 Background
Material:     

    “ Introduction to the Responsible Conduct of
Research ,”   Nicholas H.  Steneck 
with David  Zinn , Office of Research Integrity (ORI),
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  

    “ UC Conflict of Interest
Policy ,”   UC Business and Finance Bulletin G-39, UC
Executive Vice President – Business Operations.  

   “ Integrity  In  Research ,”   UCI Office of Research
Administration. 

   “  UC
Office of Ethics, Compliance &amp; Audit Services  .”   

         

   Homework #5, Due Wed., 7 Nov.:     

    Identify
one interesting ICS professor you might work with.     
[ Instructions ]       

   o   
     Email  your
1-page Summary to Dr. Lathrop by Wed., 7 Nov.       

   o   
    The point to this exercise is to show you how to learn more about
an ICS professor before you approach them for research.    

   o   
      If you already have a
research advisor and topic, this ICS professor must be from an entirely
different area.      The intent is to broaden
your exposure to ICS research in general.         

         

   Week 6:     

         

                 Wed.,
12 Nov.,   Research Funding ---
 Grantsmanship  and Entrepreneurship       

         

                 No
more homework!    Work hard in your
other courses!     

     

                 Background
Material:     

                              Research Intellectual Property --- Patents,
Copyrights, Trade Marks, and Trade Secrets      

                              UC
Patent  Policy, and Patent Acknowledgment  .     

         

   Week 7:     

         

                  Wed ., 19 Nov.,  Student Practice
Technical Talks.      

         

                             12:00-12:25
---  Farshad   Momtaz      

                                         Title:     

                                                         GIDMaPS   : A Drought Time Machine [ PDF ]    

                                         Abstract:     

                                                    Drought
is defined as lack of water supplies and rainfall. During the recent years our
economy, ecosystem, and even human lives have been affected by its  effects.The  Global Integrated Drought Monitoring and
Prediction System ( GIDMaPS ) is the first global
drought monitoring and prediction system that covers the globe with near
real-time resolution. It is also the first drought prediction system, which
automatically retrieves data from model simulations and satellite observations.
The monitoring component provides drought severity, while the prediction
component offers probability occurrence of drought for different severity
levels. Its ability to predict the future droughts can prevent millions in
economic loss, wild fires, and save human lives.    

       

                             12:25-12:50
--- Sean Dunn     

                                         Title:     

   DDoS    Attacks: A Real and Rising Concern [ PDF ]    

                                         Abstract:     

                                                    In
the past decade,  DDoS  attacks have grown immensely
popular among malicious hackers.    A  DDoS , or Distributed Denial of Service, is a method by
which these malicious hackers can prevent users from accessing a certain
computer resource by overloading it with requests from an array of separate
computer systems.    The targeted
resource becomes so busy responding to these empty requests that legitimate
users are unable to access the resource effectively.    While a malicious virus or worm is a
precision tool designed for a specific purpose such as using a host machine to
send spam emails, a  DDoS  attack is a blunt weapon,
capable for disabling entire systems for hours or even days.    Its effectiveness can be seen in its
diverse use. Large scale  DDoS  attacks have affected
everyone from video game companies to financial institutions and even the CIA.  

   Week 8:     

         

                  Wed ., 26 Nov.,  Student Practice
Technical Talks.      

         

                             12:00-12:25
--- Yang Jiao     

                                         Title:     

                                                        3D Non-rigid Objects Recognition Using
Laplace Beltrami  Eigensystem  [ PDF ]    

                                         Abstract:     

                                                    The
recognition of three-dimensional (3D) objects is a major interest in computer
vision. High-density point clouds provide an identification of object classes
such as dogs, cats, and horses. Since each point cloud system is of different
object classes, the non-rigid structures within the same object class can be
interrelated due to their intrinsically similar distribution. The talk will
address two approaches and solutions for recognition of non-rigid 3D objects
that exhibit a “pose invariance” property under 3D rotation. It is
difficult to infer the underlying class of a 3D model due to the lack of
correspondence between the original model and its intrinsic class. The
recognition of 3D models containing information inferring the underlying 3D
object class is difficult due to the lack of consistent and reliable
correspondences. The proposed approaches match and distinguish unordered 3D
non-rigid objects by preserving characteristics represented by LB  eigen -functions as well as eliminating noises via the
moment invariant method. The resulting cluster analysis is able to directly
match 3D deformable objects with its corresponding class and recognize
non-rigid deformable objects as different classes, thereby supporting
efficiency in the classification of unordered 3D models.    

       

                             12:25-12:50
---  Weicheng  Yu     

                                         Title:     

  Crowdsourcing:
A new work style [ PDF ]    

                                         Abstract:     

  Crowdsourcing
is a relatively new term. It defines a process of obtaining services, ideas or content
by soliciting contributions from a group of people. The modern method transfers
crowdsourcing to the Internet. Contributors in a crowdsourcing project are
granted more freedom since they are not scrutinized by others physically. The
online environment tends to put less stress on people, allowing them to deliver
more creative works. Crowdsourcing is evolving quickly, and it is applied to
many more fields other than computer science related projects. More and more
people are embracing it as a new work style to the traditional work style.        

               

   Week 9:     

         

                  Wed., 3 Dec., Student Practice Technical Talks.      

         

                             12:00-12:25
---  Vonnie  Wu     

                                         Title:     

                                                        The distinction of Concurrency and Parallelism
[ PDF ]    

                                         Abstract:     

                                                    In
this talk, I reference Rob Pike’s Tech Talk on “Concurrency Is Not
Parallelism” and discuss the differences and similarities between concurrency
and parallelism. Concurrency is defined as the composition of independently
executing processes, while parallelism is defined as the simultaneous execution
of (possibly related) computations. These two concepts are related yet have
completely different meanings: concurrency is about dealing with lots of things
at once, while parallelism is about doing lots of things at once. I hope that
this talk will make it easier to understand and effectively use these two
principles in Software Engineering.    

       

                             12:25-12:50
--- Geoffrey Tucker     

                                         Title:     

  The
Rise of Multi-factor Authentication [ PDF ]    

                                         Abstract:     

  As
computers become more powerful and encryption algorithms slowly become
outdated, password security becomes increasingly more important. To maximize
one's security, it is imperative to choose a long password with symbols,
numbers, as well as upper and lower case letters. However, for the common user,
long passwords are rarely chosen as they are easy to forget and take longer to
type out. Multi-factor authentication provides a profound increase in security
for common users who like to use their shorter passwords, as well as for more
advanced users who seek to maximize their security beyond having a strong password.    

     

   Week 10:     

         

                  Wed ., 10 Dec.,  Student Practice
Technical Talks .        

         

                             12:00-12:25
--- Kelly  Magruder      

                                         Title:       

                                                    Big
Data Management: Past, Present, and Future [ PDF ]    

                                         Abstract:     

                                                    In
this talk, I will discuss the history of technological systems for managing
“Big Data”, the inception of the field, and the current activities
and architectures related to developing such systems.    Although Big Data has progressed
massively since the need for management systems became most pressing in the
late 1970s, many architectural issues still remain.    Recently developed components and layers
within data management systems are being used to tackle these challenges posed
by the current understanding of the Big Data field, and this talk covers
professional opinions on what are the most important open challenges in the
field are and the most promising solutions for the data community to pursue to
ensure the most efficient data management systems.    

       

                                      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

    

     

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

</body> 