 Peer Group Admission Control<body>
   
               
         
       
               
         
       
                             
         
         
                 
         
       
                             
         
         
                Introduction    
         
       
                             
         
         
              Dynamic Peer Groups (DPGs) are becoming increasingly popular 
            and ubiquitous. Various peer-to-peer (P2P) systems (e.g. Gnutella, 
            Chord, Pastry) and mobile ad hoc networks (MANETs) are examples 
            of ad hoc groups. These groups are characterized by two important 
            features, (1) lack of trusted authority and (2) dynamic membership, 
            which often implies dynamic topology. These features prompt a number 
            of challenges for routing as well as content placement and retrieval. 
            They also make it difficult to develop effective and efficient security 
            mechanisms.  
         
       
                             
         
         
                 
         
       
                 
         
         
               
         
         
               
         
       
                 
         
         
                P2P Systems   
         
         
               MANETs   
         
       
                             
         
         
                 
         
       
                             
         
         
              The need for security in MANETs and P2P has 
            been widely recognized by the research community and the bulk of 
            prior work has been in the context of traditional security services 
            such as access control, secure group communication (group key agreement 
            and key management) and secure routing (in MANETs). Although these 
            services are certainly important, another equally important issue 
            -  admission control  -   has remained mostly out of the spotlight. 
            Informally, it is the problem of group admission, i.e., how one 
            joins an ad hoc group. Only very recently, some work began to make 
            in-roads into this difficult problem.  
         
       
                             
         
         
                 
         
       
                             
         
         
                Why Admission 
            Control is Necessary?    
         
       
                             
         
         
             I n general, security services are necessary 
            to provide communication privacy and integrity. These are not possible 
            without secure and efficient key management. Thus, most prior work 
            in peer group security has focused on key management and authentication. 
            However, in DPGs where every user is free to join the group, if 
            anyone is able to obtain the access to the group key, group key 
            management becomes useless. Therefore, mechanisms to control membership 
            are required.  
                 
              Admission control (aka, membership control 
            or membership management) is needed to allow only authorized 
            users to join the group. This is a very important issue, since all 
            other DPG security services rely upon group membership. In short, 
            group admission control is required to ascertain membership 
            eligibility and to bootstrap other important security services, 
            such as secure group key management and secure routing. Thus, 
            admission control is a prerequisite for group key management.  
         
       
                           
         
         
                 
         
       
                             
         
         
                Applications    
         
       
                             
         
         
                    Military Mobile Ad Hoc Networks    
                  Private P2P file sharing   
                  Self-organizing vehicular networks   
                  Distributed file/storage systems   
                  Collaborative workspaces   
                  Personal area networks   
                  Home networks   
         
       
                             
         
         
                 
         
       
                             
         
         
                People    
         
       
                             
         
         
                            
            Principal Investigator:    Dr. 
            Gene Tsudik                                              Graduate Student Researchers  
              - 
             Jeong 
            H. Yi   
              - 
             Nitesh Saxena   
         
       
                             
         
         
              
         
       
                             
         
         
                Project Funding    
         
       
                             
         
         
                          Supported 
                                    in part by an award from the  Army 
                                    Research Office (ARO)  under contract 
                                     W911NF0410280,   in part,     NSF    awards under    0331707    and    0331690    
(   ITR-RESCUE   ), and  a grant from       SUN Microsystems   .  
         
       
                          
         
         
                 
         
       
               Copyright 
            2001 (c) SCONCE. All rights reserved. Best viewed with 
            Internet Explorer 6.0 &amp; 1024*768 resolution or higher.   
         
            </body> 