 Alderis@UCI - Analysis Language for Distributed, Embedded, and Real-time Systems<body>

		 
		
				 
				
						 Alderis@UCI 
						 Analysis Language for Distributed, Embedded, and Real-time Systems. 
				
				 
				
				   Downloads  
								  Publications  
								  DRE Systems  
								  AMBA  
								  Links  
								  Home  
								
				   
				
						 Getting interested? 
						
							 
								Feel free to contact me if you have any questions or comments regarding the proposed method at gabe at uci dot edu.
							 

							 
								  

							 
								The case study and the theoretic background behind the proposed method is explained in more detail in the following paper: Gabor Madl, Sherif Abdelwahed, Douglas C. Schmidt:  Verifying Distributed Real-time Properties of Embedded Systems via Graph Transformations and Model Checking , Real-Time Systems, Special Issue: Invited Papers from the 25th IEEE International Real-Time Systems Symposium, Volume 33, Numbers 1-3, Pages 77-100, July 2006. 

						 
						
								 DREAM 
								 ACES 
								 FORGE 
						
						 
						
						  
				
				 
				
				 
								
						 Boeing Bold Stroke Avionics Example 
						
							 This section illustrates the use of the Alderis language in a case study from the domain of avionics distributed real-time embedded (DRE) systems. Figure 1 shows the component-based architecture of the system, which is built upon the Boeing Bold Stroke real-time middleware. This application is deployed on a non-preemptive multiprocessor platform. As shown in Figure 1, this application is driven by five  Timer  components deployed on five CPUs. 

								 Figure 1 - Aspects of the Bold Stroke Application 

							 
								   
							 

							 
Computations on different processors are driven by their respective
timers. Components, however, do not necessarily execute with the
timer's rate, as seen in the  NAV_DISPLAY  component's case. It
is executed more often to serve remote requests than to serve local
requests on  CPU_3 .

							  Compositional Analysis 

							 
Figure 3 shows how we modeled the system in the  Uppaal  model checker tool. The application consits of 11 Task
components and 11 event channels, which 5 are local and used only for
buffering. The application is deployed on 5 processors. We have to model event channels explicitly (1)
when we have to buffer events or (2) on remote event channels which
have measureable delays. All the event channels satisfy one of the
above conditions, except the timer's event channels that have been
abstracted out in the model.
							 

							 
The scheduling policies are represented by  Schedulers  in the
 DRE Semantic Domain . Since the Bold Stroke application is
deployed on a 5-processor architecture we define 5 schedulers as shown
on Figure 3. The schedulers get more complex
according to the scheduling policies. The automatic generation of the
models provides a safe way to ensure the correct guard conditions and
assignments. The timed automata model shown in Figure 3 corresponding 
to the Bold Stroke system shown in Figure 1 has been shown 
to be schedulable.
							  

								  Figure 3 - Generated timed automata models 

							 
								   
							 

				 
		
		 
		
		 
		
				 
						
								© All the material published on this website is copyrighted. All rights reserved.    

				
						 
		
		 


</body> 