 News | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems | Page 2 
 
		   

			  Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  
			 Bren School of Information and Computer Science 			
			 University of California, Irvine 
			  
		   
			  Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  
			 University of California, Irvine 
		 Menu 
			  Skip to content  

			    Home  
  About CML 
   About us  
	  News  
	  Contact Us  
  
  People 
   Faculty  
	  Alumni  
  
  Events &amp; Seminars 
   AI/ML Seminar Series  
	  ML Reading Group  
  
  Education &amp; Resources 
   Courses  
	  Books  
  
  UCI Machine Learning Archive  
  Sponsors &amp; Funding  
  Subscribe to CML List  
  		 

		
			 
					 News 				 
							  Tomlinson, Patterson receive $400,000 NSF grant for crowdsourcing and food security project  				 Standard 			 
		 The National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded informatics professor Bill Tomlinson $400,000 for his project “Fostering Non-Expert Creation of Sustainable Polycultures through Crowdsourced Data Synthesis.” Associate professor Donald Patterson and Assistant Professor of Crop Sciences at the University of Illinois Sarah Taylor Lovell serve as co-principal investigators. 
 The project integrates research in computing and sustainability science with the goal of enabling a new approach to sustainable food security. By combining cyber-human systems and crowdsourcing research with the science of agroecology, the project seeks to develop an understanding of how online design tools may contribute to sustainability through enhanced local food production; to use the process of populating a plant species database as an instance of a class of problems amenable to intelligent crowdsourcing; and to pioneer new knowledge in crowdsourcing optimization. 
 According to the project abstract, “The work will contribute to long-term food security and offer lessons, concepts, methods, and software tools that may be transferable to other sustainability challenges.” 
 The award is part of the Cyber-Innovation for Sustainability Science and Engineering (CyberSEES) program at NSF, and is funded through the Division of Computing and Communication Foundations (CCF), which supports research and education projects that explore the foundations of computing and communication devices and their usage. According to the CCF website, “CCF-supported projects also investigate revolutionary computing models and technologies based on emerging scientific ideas and integrate research and education activities to prepare future generations of computer science and engineering workers.” 
			 
	
	 August 18, 2014 		
		
			  Lee uses crowdsourcing to predict World Cup outcome  				 Standard 			 
		 Center member and Professor of Cognitive Science Michael Lee, in partnership with  Ranker , are using the wisdom of the crowd to predict the outcome of the World Cup. Lee and his collaborators developed a model that integrates multiple sources of ranking information available from participating individuals, along with bracket information, to make an overall prediction on each country’s likelihood of winning.  See  their blog post  for more information. 
  Update:  After the tournament, Lee and his collaborators have also  analyzed their performance  relative to other World Cup prediction models. 
			 
	
	 August 18, 2014 		
		
			  Smyth gives keynote talk at top artificial intelligence conference  				 Standard 			 
		 Professor Padhraic Smyth gave an invited keynote talk at the recent AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-14). Held July 27-31 in Quebec City, Canada, the conference promotes research in artificial intelligence and scientific exchange among AI researchers, practitioners, scientists and engineers in affiliated disciplines.   Read more  
			 
	
	 August 2, 2014 		
		
			  ‘Deep learning’ makes search for exotic particles easier  				 Standard 			 
		 UCI researchers develop computing techniques that could aid hunt for Higgs bosons. Fully automated .deep learning. by computers greatly improves the odds of discovering particles such as the Higgs boson, beating even veteran physicists. abilities, according to findings by UC Irvine researchers published today in the journal Nature Communications.   Read more  
			 
	
	 August 1, 2014 		
		
			  Anandkumar gives short course at MLSS  				 Standard 			 
		 Center member Prof. Anima Anandkumar gave a half-day course at the  2014 Machine Learning Summer School  in Pittsburg PA.   MLSS  is a long-running series of summer schools around the world for graduate students and researchers who want to apply machine learning methods to their research problems. 
			 
	
	 July 20, 2014 		
		
			  Smyth to head new Data Science Initiative  				 Standard 			 
		 Center member and Professor of Computer Science Padhraic Smyth has been named the director of a new campus-wide initiative with a focus on coordinating and linking the activities of researchers and students across campus involved in various aspects of data science. UCI’s Data Science Initiative was initiative was started on July 1, 2014 and is sponsored by the Provost through the Office of Academic Initiatives.  Find out more  here . 
			 
	
	 June 9, 2014 		
		
			  Anandkumar Receives ‘Early-Career’ Sloan Research Fellowship  				 Standard 			 
		 Center member Anima Anandkumar, an assistant professor of electrical engineering and computer science, has been awarded a 2014 Sloan Research Fellowship for her work at the interface of theory and practice of large-scale machine learning and high-dimensional statistics. Bestowed annually since 1955 by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, the two-year fellowships go to 126 early-career scientists and scholars in the U.S. and Canada whose achievements and potential identify them as the next generation of scientific leaders.  Read more  here . 
			 
	
	 February 20, 2014 		
		
			  Two Center Members Elected as ACM Fellows  				 Standard 			 
		 The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), the world’s largest educational and scientific computing society, has announced two faculty members have earned prestigious honors. Computer science professors Rina Dechter and Padhraic Smyth have been named 2013 ACM Fellows.  Read more  
			 
	
	 February 3, 2014 		
		
			  Carey and Li receive $1.1 million in funding for AsterixDB research  				 Standard 			 
		 Professors Michael Carey and Chen Li have received $750,000 from the National Science Foundation and nearly $400,000 from corporations . including Google, Oracle and HTC . to continue the development of their Big Data system, AsterixDB.  Read more   
			 
	
	 February 2, 2014 		
		
			  ICS grad students take second place in sbv IMPROVER competition  				 Standard 			 
		 Peter Sadowski and Michael Zeller, both Ph.D. students with the Department of Computer Science, earned a second-place finish in an international data-mining competition. The honor was given by sbv IMPROVER, a collaborative project designed to enable scientists to learn about and contribute to the development of a new crowdsourcing method for verification of scientific data and results.  Read more  
			 
	
	 February 1, 2014 		
		
			 Posts navigation 
		 

						   ‹  Older posts   
			
						   Newer posts   ›   
			
		 
	 
	 
				
		 Search 
		
 

 

 (c) 2015  Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems 
	  
				 WordPress / BonPress 
	 
</body> 