 Shang-Hua Teng<body>
		 
			 Shang-Hua Teng 

			 
				  Boston Univ., Dept. of Computer Science 
and  Akamai Technologies Inc.   http://www.cs.bu.edu/fac/steng/   steng@cs.bu.edu  

				 Author, editor, or reviewer of: 
				   A data-parallel implementation of the geometric partitioning algorithm  
					  A Delaunay based numerical method for three dimensions: generation, formulation, and partition  
					  A deterministic linear time algorithm for geometric separators and its applications  
					  Approximating center points with iterated Radon points  
					  Automatic mesh partitioning  
					  Biting spheres in 3D  
					  Biting: advancing front meets sphere packing  
					  Combinatorial aspects of geometric graphs  
					  Control volume meshes using sphere packing: generation, refinement and coarsening  
					  Data generation for geometric algorithms on non-uniform distributions  
					  Disk packings and planar separators  
					  Dynamic load balancing for parallel adaptive mesh refinement{}  
					  Fast nested dissection for finite element meshes  
					  Fast separator decomposition for finite element meshes  
					  Geometric mesh partitioning: implementation and experiments  
					  Geometric separators for finite-element meshes  
					  How good is recursive bisection?  
					  Layer based solutions for constrained space-time meshing  
					  Low energy and mutually distant sampling  
					  Min-max-boundary domain decomposition  
					  Moments of inertia and graph separators  
					  On the radius-edge condition in the control volume method  
					  Optimal coarsening of unstructured meshes  
					  Optimal good-aspect-ratio coarsening for unstructured meshes  
					  Parallel construction of quadtrees and quality triangulations  
					  Parallel Delaunay refinement: algorithms and analyses  
					  Partitioning meshes with lines and planes  
					  Points, spheres, and separators: a unified approach to graph partitioning  
					  Provably good partitioning and load balancing algorithms for parallel adaptive $N$-body simulation  
					  Regression depth and center points  
					  Separators for sphere-packings and nearest neighbor graphs  
					  Simultaneous refinement and coarsening adaptive meshing with moving boundaries  
					  Sliver exudation  
					  To generate good triangular meshes, conforming to control spacing requirements  
					  Unstructured mesh generation: Theory, practice, and perspectives  
					  Proc. 11th Int. Symp. Algorithms &amp; Computation (ISAAC 2000)  
					  Proc. 5th Int. Symp. Solving Irregularly Structured Problems in Parallel (IRREGULAR 1998)  
				  
					[ D. Eppstein publications ]
					[ Citation database ]
					[ Authors ]
				 
			 

			 
				 Fano  Experimental Web Server,
				 D. Eppstein ,
				 School of Information &amp; Computer Science ,
				 UC Irvine 
			 

			   
			   
		 
	</body> 