 ICS 23 / CSE 23 - Setting Up Java At Home<body>

 

 ICS 23 / CSE 23 - Setting Up Java At Home 

 

 

  A word of warning 

 One of the advantages of programming in Java is that it's possible
to set up your own computer as a Java development environment easily
and cheaply. On the other hand, working in the lab has some genuine
benefits, particularly for those of you who are fairly new to
programming. In the lab, you'll find that help is more readily
available when you get stuck, that your machine setup will generally be
stable and designed well for the task of working on your assignments,
and that you're free of the distractions of your home. 

 Nevertheless, I'm aware that many of you, either out of want or
need, will choose to do some percentage of your work at home. What
follows is enough information to turn your Windows-based machine into a
Java development environment at little or no cost. 

 

 

  Getting started 

 Before you get started, be aware that this document only describes
how to set up Java on a Windows machine. If you're using a Macintosh or
running Linux, I'm sorry to say that you're on your own -- though you
may find that many of the concepts here will translate fairly well to
your system. 

 First and foremost, you need a Java compiler and Java virtual
machine. There are several packages that include these tools, but a
great option is to download the Java 2 Standard Edition (J2SE) SDK from
 java.sun.com .   J2SE is absolutely free! 
Remember, you will need a version that is at least as recent as
1.5 (which is also called 5.0).  J2SE includes a Java compiler ( javac ), a Java virtual machine ( java ),
and all of the standard Java library components -- in other words,
everything you need to write Java programs in a wide variety of problem
domains, and more than enough firepower for the assignments we'll be
giving you. Make sure that you download the SDK, not the JRE. The JRE
is the Java Runtime Environment, which includes the necessary code to
allow you to  run  Java programs, but not to write and compile them! 

 Secondly, you'll need a  text editor , which you'll use to
write and edit your program code. There are many inexpensive and/or
free options available. In the lab, we provide TextPad, which you can
download from  www.textpad.com .
TextPad requires a modest registration fee, which you should pay if you
plan to use it on a continuous basis. You may be able to find free text
editors, particularly those written in Java, at shareware/freeware
download sites such as  www.download.com . 

 

 

  Installation: the easy part 

 Presumably, your text editor will include an installation program to set it up and make it completely ready for your use. 

 J2SE also includes an installation program, which places all of the
files into the appropriate places and sets up some desktop shortcuts
for you. However, after running the installation program, you still
won't be able to execute  javac  or  java , without making a couple of modifications "under the hood" of your system. 

 

 

  The (not all that) hard part: PATH and CLASSPATH 

 You can execute programs from a Command Prompt (or, as Windows 95/98
call it, an "MS-DOS prompt") by simply typing their names, such as  javac  or  java .  But there's a catch: Windows has to know where it can  find  these programs.  This is the job of the  PATH 
environment variable. PATH is a list of folders, separated by
semicolons, in which Windows will look for a program whenever you try
to execute one. 

 Similarly, whenever the Java compiler or Java virtual machine need
to be able to use a Java class (such as when you import a class from
the Java library), the compiler or virtual machine needs to be able to
know where to find it. This is the job of the  CLASSPATH 
environment variable. CLASSPATH is a list of folders, separated by
semicolons, in which the Java compiler or virtual machine will look for
a Java class whenever it's trying to find one. 

 So, to make J2SE work, you have to modify the PATH and CLASSPATH
environment variables on your system, so that Windows will be able to
find  javac  and  java , and so that  javac  and  java  will be able to find all of the necessary Java classes. 

 How you modify these variables depends on which version of Windows
you're using.  In either case, I'll assume that you've installed J2SE
into the default directory during installation, which, for the sake
of this document, let us assume is
 C:\jdk1.5.0_01 .  If you installed it somewhere else, you'll
need to use your installation directory instead of the one above. 

  On Windows 95, 98, and probably ME.  (I say "probably" because
I don't have a version of ME handy to test this with.) On these
versions of Windows, you can set the PATH and CLASSPATH by modifying
the file  C:\AUTOEXEC.BAT .  Add the following two lines to the  end  of this file: 

 set PATH=%PATH%;C:\jdk1.5.0_01\bin
set CLASSPATH=%CLASSPATH%;.;C:\jdk1.5.0_01\lib
 

 You'll probably need to restart your system for these changes to take effect. 

  On Windows 2000 and XP.   Right-click the  My Computer  icon on your desktop and select  Properties .  Select the  Advanced  tab.  Click the  Environment Variables...  button.  Under "System variables," find the  PATH  variable and add this to the  end  of it: 

 ;C:\jdk1.5.0_01\bin
 

 Then find the CLASSPATH variable. If it doesn't exist (and it
probably won't, if you've never used your system to develop Java code),
click the  New...  button, specifying  CLASSPATH  as its name, and the following value: 

 .;C:\jdk1.5.0_01\lib
 

 You may need to restart your system, or at least start up a new
Command Prompt window, in order for these changes to take effect. 

 

 

  That's it! 

 At this point, you should be good to go.  Happy coding! 

 

 

   A few minor changes by Alex Thornton, Fall 2002. 
   Originally written by Alex Thornton for ICS 21 and ICS 22, Summer 2002. 
  

</body> 