 Partner Evaluation and
Choosing Your Next Partner<body>
 
 
 Pair Programming Partner Evaluation and
Choosing Your Next Partner 
 
 

 
  Pair Programming Partner Evaluation 
 

 Now that it is time to switch partners, we want you to evaluate your experience with your current partner by completing the Pair Partner Evaluation Form, below. The evaluation is due at the date and time given in the Course Schedule. 
 

 Evaluation Questions 
 

To evaluate your partner,

   Copy the form into the  body  of an email; do not make it as an attachment.  
  Complete the evaluation. You can indicate your choice from various options by deleting all the options for the question except the one you want to pick. Answer the open-ended questions by simply typing in your repsonses.  
  Make the subject of the email "First Partner Evaluation"  
  Email the completed evaluation to  21-questions@ics.uci.edu   
  Although the open response questions are phrased to elicit a yes or no response, you are encouraged to include comments to elaborate on your answer; the goal is to paint us a picture of the nature of your partner’s participation in paired work, and what you think about pair programming (so far).  

 If you were given approval to work alone instead of in a pair, complete this evaluation about yourself as best as you can, revising it as necessary to make sense in that context. For example, the first question could be interpreted as “Did you come to lab on time and ready to work?” 
    Pair Partner Evaluation Form  
 My Name: 

 My UCI ID Number: 

 My Partner's Name: 

 My partner's technical competency is (choose one): 
 
	Much better than mine
	Somewhat better than mine
	About the same as mine
	Somewhat less than mine
	Much less than mine
 

 My partner and I were _______ compatible (choose one option to fill the blank): 

 
	Very
	Reasonably
	Not at all
 

  Open response questions  

   Did your partner come to the scheduled meetings on time and ready to work? Did you partner notify you if she or he would not be able to attend a meeting or fulfill a responsibility?  

  Did your partner read the assignment and preparatory materials before coming to the scheduled meetings, showing up either with specific questions or ready to contribute?  

  Did your partner cooperatively follow the pair programming model (rotating roles of driver and navigator, questioning and making observations as the navigator)?  

  Did your partner contribute fully, fairly, and actively, to the best of his or her ability, to the completion of the lab assignment?  

  Was your partner's participation professional and cooperative overall?  

  Have you found pair programming helpful in completing the programming work and learning about programming in general? If you have previous experience programming alone, do you now prefer working in pairs?  
  Overall rating of your partner (choose one): 

 
    Excellent 
	 Consistently went above and beyond-tutored me, carried more than her or his fair share of the load 
   Very good 
	 Consistently did what she or he was supposed to do, was well prepared and cooperative 
   Satisfactory 
	 Usually did what she or he was supposed to do, was acceptably prepared and cooperative 
   Marginal 
	 Often did what she or he was supposed to do, was minimally prepared and cooperative 
   Inadequate 
	 Sometimes failed to show up, usually showed up but was rarely prepared 
   Deficient 
	 Often failed to show up, was unprepared when she or he did show up 
   Unsatisfactory 
	 Consistently failed to show up, was consistently unprepared 
   Negligent 
	 Practically no participation 
   No Show 
	 No participation at all 
	    Other comments:  

 
  Choosing your Next Partner 
 
 For the next two assignments, you will work with a  new  partner. Your new partner cannot be your current partner, unless you took on a new partner after Lab Exam 2 was given; in that case, you and your current partner can remain partners for Labs 4 and 5, if you both agree. 

  As before, we prefer you and your partner chose each other, asking for a TA’s assistance if you cannot find a partner. Report the new partnership via email to  21-questions@ics.uci.edu  no later than the date given in the Course Schedule.  

 Why the Switch 

   Learning to work with different individuals is an important skill in general, and in the computer science workplace in particular; virtually all projects are accomplished by teams where membership changes ocassionally (and sometimes often).  

  Sometimes one of a pair will drop the course, or stop participating in it, leaving the other person of the pair without a partner. Reforming pairs lets us correct that situation.  

  Switching gives you an opportunity to pair up with another who has passed (and not passed) the same, or close to the same, lab exams; we strongly recommend you take advantage of this opportunity.  Such a pairing puts together students who have (close to) the same tasks to complete, maximizing the benefit to both partners. 
     
Written by Norman Jacobson, September, 2006; the section on partner evaluation was adapted
    from text in  Informatics 41 Fall 2006 Pair Programming Guidelines  
   by David G. Kay, used with permission (and thanks!)
 Section on switching partners added, and other edits made, by Norman Jacobson, December, 2006.
 Minor revisions, by Norman Jacobson, January 2007.
 Replaced the questionnaire with a significantly revised one that appears in the NCWIT Pair
    Programming in a Box module, and other minor edits, by Norman Jacobson, September 2008.
 Edited to remove some redundant text; revised rating names to better describe the indicated behaviors, 
   by Norman Jacobson, December 2008.
 Minor edit to make clear that completed evaluations are emailed to the TA who grades the student's lab exams, 
   by Norman Jacobson, November 2009.
 Revised to make submission requirements more explicit and to reflect this quarter's staffing, and to allow  
   newly-formed partnerships to continue into Labs 4 &amp; 5, by Norman Jacobson, December 2009.
 Minor typos fixed, by Norman Jacobson, September 2010.
 

</body> 