 BART Flyer<body> 
 
 
  University of California at Irvine
  Irvine Research Unit in Software 
(IRUS)  is proud to sponsor the 
 
 
 
   Bay Area 
Roundtable (BART)    
Scaling for the Internet series, meeting 2  
Internet Document Management

      

  

 * Friday, March 13, 1998 *  
 
9:00am-9:30am: Coffee/Network 
9:30am-12:00pm: BART Meeting 
Hyatt Rickey's Hotel - Palo Alto 
4219 El Camino Real  
Tel (415) 493-8000  
 
There is a $15.00 charge for non-sponsors.  
Checks should be made payable to  UC Regents</strong>.  
 No reservations required.      

  

Coordinator:  E. James Whitehead,  
 IETF WebDAV  
Working Group Chair, 
 UC Irvine  / 
 IRUS ; 
  ejw@ics.uci.edu 

 

   Web-based Document Management
 </strong>   Alex Hopmann, Lead Program Manager, 
 Microsoft Corporation , 
 alexhop@microsoft.com 
 

  

In the last few years, the World Wide Web has enabled the world's first 
large-scale, globally accessible corpus of information. What makes this 
especially amazing is that it has done so without any standardized system 
for document management and authoring.

  

The IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) WebDAV Working group has set out
to define standards for "Distributed Authoring and Versioning" based on
HTTP, with the goal of providing a Standards-based framework for authoring,
collaborating, and managing the Web. The base WebDAV specification
is nearing completion. This talk will address the basic architecture of
both the WebDAV protocol as well as the newer Distributed Searching and
Locating protocol, including a detailed discussion of how these standards
work. The talk will then explain how this architecture can be used to 
enable common document authoring scenarios, as well as more sophisticated 
web-based applications using XML.

  

 Biography:</strong>
Alex Hopmann is a Lead Program Manager for the Microsoft Corporation, where 
he is the liason between product development and standards development.
 Alex has been a key participant of several IETF working groups, and is
currently the chair of a follow-on group to WebDAV, the Distributed
Authoring Searching and Locating (DASL) group.  He founded ResNova Software 
in 1990 to develop collaborative online applications, leading him into
involvement with the IETF standards process where he has helped design
aspects of HTTP 1.1, WebDAV, and is co-author of the MHTML (HTML Email)
standard. Like many of today's computer technologists, Alex got his start
on the Apple ][ and has fond memories of programming with peeks, pokes and
calls.

  

   Scaling Document Management on the Internet
 </strong>   Jim Cunningham, Engineering Manager - Web Publishing and 
Text Search Group, 
 Netscape Communications Corp. , 
 jfc@netscape.com 
 

  

Scaling document management on the Internet is becoming an important
area as information of all types is quickly being moved to Web-based
access. The amount of data available, and the number of users generating
this data on the web is growing rapidly, as is the number of users
who are accessing this data. In addition, some data may be dynamically
generated. Scaling document management solutions to handle this problem
is going to be necessary to ensure the data is accurate, does not become
stale, and can be managed by a large community of users who are managing
documents which may be distributed across the Internet. This talk
will define some of the issues regarding scaling on the Internet, suggest
some ideas for managing this scaling problem, and provide some real world
feedback based on Internet experience with the Netscape Enterprise Server
Web Publishing and Search systems.

  

 Biography: </strong>
Jim Cunningham is the Engineering Manager of the Web Publishing and
Text Search group at Netscape Communications Corp. where he oversees the
development of web-based document management features of the Netscape EnterpriseServer and Text Search used throughout Netscape's Suitespot servers.
Jim has been involved in the Distributed Authoring and Versioning(WebDAV)
and the Distributed Authoring Searching and Locating(DASL) IETF working
groups. Jim's previous work has included research in text-based information
retrieval, including the RUBRIC research system which has since become
the basis of the Verity text search engine. Prior to Netscape, Jim worked
in Telecommunications building ISDN Internet access products, information
retrieval as part of an interactive cable television system, and intelligent
analysis research and development.

  

 
Directions  to meeting are available

  

Upcoming Meeting:

  
 
  Meeting 3: Friday,  April 3</strong>, 1998 
Topic:  
Scaling for the Internet series, meeting 3
  
Speakers: Keith Swenson, Netscape      Raul Medina-Mora, Senior Vice President and Chief Scientist, ActionTechnologies  
 

 
 
The Irvine Research Unit in Software wishes to thank its 
 
corporate sponsors :  
 
 
Sustaining:
  
The Boeing Company * Boeing North American, Inc. * Northrop Grumman 
Corporation * 
Raytheon Company * Sun Microsystems Laboratories * TRW
 
 
Supporting:
  
Beckman Instruments * Continuus Software Corporation *
FileNet Corporation * Lockheed Martin *  
Logicon Ultrasystems Space &amp; Engineering Operations * 
NASA Ames Research Center * Printronix, Inc. 
 
 
 
For further information on 
 BART  or 
 IRUS,  contact  
&amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp &amp;nbsp 
 Debra Brodbeck  
at (714) 824-2260; 
 brodbeck@ics.uci.edu 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
Irvine Research Unit in Software   
Information and Computer Science  
University of California, Irvine  CA 92697-3425   
</body> 