 UCI ICS 1C Syllabus, Spring 1996<body>
 UCI  ICS 1C  Syllabus, Summer 1996 
Networked Information Discovery and Retrieval 

 Lectures : IERF B015, MW 10-12:50
  Labs : CS 173/183, MW 2:00-4:50pm.
  Instructor:  
 Vitus Leung , 
 vitus@ics.uci.edu   Teaching Assistant:  
Jason Cahill, 
 jcahill@ics.uci.edu   Text: 
 
 The World Wide Web Unleashed 1996 (third edition)   by
John December and Neil Randall, 1995,
Sams Publishing (Indianapolis, Indiana, USA),
ISBN 1-57521-040-1.
  Additional Assigned and Recommended Readings: 
Available from Engineering Copy Center, 203 Engineering Tower,
labeled as ``assigned'' (i.e.,  required ) or
``recommended'' (i.e., additional material that is
 not  required).  Computer Systems Used: 
ICS Computing Labs (CS 173/183)
and
UCI Office of Academic Computing ``EA'' systems,  ea.oac.uci.edu , or
``ORION'' system,  orion.oac.uci.edu 
  Course URL: 
  http://www.ics.uci.edu/~vitus/ics1c/  

 
  What this course is about 
 
The world-wide Internet has become a massive repository of information and
tool for communication.  This course will explore a range of information
resources and communication tools available over the Internet, with
emphases on the organization of computer networks and the information
they provide.
  
Networked Information Discovery and Retrieval (NIDR) is a generally
accepted term in the networking community for the productive use of
the variety of resources, techniques, and underlying concepts surrounding
remotely accessible information. 
``How-to'' details about using the various tools for NIDR are
not a principal focus of this course, although students will learn
them ``along the way'' through their laboratory work.
Instead, the course focuses on
concepts and issues underlying the network, its resources, and access
tools.
  
For example, using a World-Wide Web browser one can examine such
issues as these:  What is a network protocol, why are protocols
important, what protocols are used by various information providers?
Many fundamental issues in systems architecture appear clearly
when examining network-based applications: the interaction of various
separate sequential processes, the role of cache and cache management,
achieving reliability in the face of errors, building systems at
successive levels of abstraction, various interface issues (both human
and between systems), and so on.
Networked information access systems provide
concrete examples which take such concepts out of the realm of
unmotivated, disconnected abstraction
into an arena of broad, immediate discourse.
  
  Course Structure 
  The course is divided into 3 approximately equal parts,
each incorporating complementary class and lab sessions.
  The first part will focus on a general conceptual and technical
overview in classes, based on readings, lectures and discussion.
The labs will concentrate on establishing in all participants
basic fluency in fundamental electronic communications and
information access tools and techniques.
  The second part will examine the conceptual and technical underpinnings
of the Internet and the World-Wide Web.
Class work will focus on analytic understanding of fundamental issues
and concepts in network and information-server architecture.
Labs will cover specifics of being an information provider.
  The third part of the course will address two or three
specialized topics in computer science
whose ``practical'' import is manifest
in networked information discovery and retrieval.
The selection of these topics will take into consideration
interests expressed by class participants.
    Lab work will be done in structured teams of 2 to 3 students working
at 1 to 2 adjacent workstations.
  Each student will keep a journal recording
course activities, questions, observations, etc.
These journals will be reviewed periodically during the quarter
and evaluation of them will be a component of
the final grade.
  50% of the final grade will be based on homework, projects (including
    the course journal described above), and class
    participation, with class participation counting at least 10% and
    no more than 20%.
  50% of the final grade will be based on in-class quizzes (30%) and the
    final exam (20%).  There will be 4 or 5 quizzes.  The lowest score
    will be discarded.  A quiz missed receives a score of 0.
    You are allowed and encouraged to use any written reference materials you
    bring: the text, your journal, printouts, etc.
    During a test, no sharing or borrowing
    of reference materials is allowed.
   Class Participation  
Class participation includes both verbal and written communication
with the instructional staff and with other students.
As hard as it may seem to ask a ``foolish'' question,
the most foolish question is the one which remains unasked
because of concern about ``how I will appear to others.''
Each person in this class should feel ``It is my responsibility
to say when I do not understand something, because if I know
enough to know that I do not understand, then surely there must
be someone else in the class who is no better off than I am
and may not even be aware that there is an issue here.
(Heck, they may not even be able to understand that last sentence!)''
 

  
Your comments are welcome via e-mail to
 vitus@ics.uci.edu  or using
a form which allows for anonymous comments:



 Current as of 12 September 1996 

</body> 