 Chimera 2.0 Tutorial: Hooking up the Chimera Server to a Chimera Website and Creating a Link<body>
 

 Hooking up the Chimera Server to a Chimera Website and Creating a Link 

   
With the Chimera Server, you can choose which Chimera Website, which
hyperweb at that website, and which link your client applications are 
using.  The action of selecting each of these is controlled by the
Servers, Webs, and Links tabs on the Chimera Server.  Follow the 
instructions below to see how to do these actions.
 

 Selecting a Chimera Website and a particular Hyperweb 
   Click on the Servers tab on the Chimera Server and then
	click on the hostname of the Chimera Website you have 
	running. (Note: in this
	case it is the testing machine.)
	
 
    


       Click the Login button to connect with the Chimera Website.
	Note: The display of the Chimera Server should automatically shift 
	to the Webs tab.  

 
    


      Now select bill_web by 
	clicking on it.  
 
    


       Click the Login button to connect with the bill_web.
	The display will shift again, this time to the
	Links tab.

 
    
	Note: There are no Links available at this time.

   Creating Links and selecting the Active Link 

  Now you can create some links which you later use when you create 
anchors on the documents and images later in this tutorial.  For now
do then following in the Links tab:
 

   Click the Create Link button at the bottom of the display.
	A dialog box will appear.  Type in the name places_to_go 
	and click OK to create a link.
   


       This creates the places_to_go link which should come up 
	on the list of links in the Links tab.  
   
	Add more links
	to this list if you like.  Note:  The Links listed may
	have a number instead of their names, this will be corrected 
	in future versions of Chimera.

       Now click on the link to make it the Active Link. 
	(Note: Once the link name is highlighted, it becomes the 
	Active Link. Also the Deactivate button becomes enabled when 
	there is an active link.)
   

    You are now ready to use a Chimera client program to start making
anchors, connecting them to links, and executing link traversals.
 

</body> 