 Filtering<body>

 Filtering: Multifaceted Views of a Single Document 

  

My  publication list 
consists of multiple pages, in which different selections
of papers are available depending on topic or other criteria.
Several of my papers combine ideas from different topics
and are available on multiple pages.
I also use a similar sort of filtering
in  The Geometry Junkyard 
and  Geometry in Action .
Here's how I do it.
  
The idea is simple: a common file,   pubs.ff  ,
contains descriptions of all the papers.
This file is essentially an HTML file, but with extra
lines added to control a program I wrote,
  filter.c  .
This program copies lines from  pubs.ff  one at a time.
The control lines tell  filter.c 
to turn on or off copying based on keywords passed as arguments
to the program.  By putting the appropriate control lines in
 pubs.ff , the same publication list can be given
many different appearances.
  
Eventually I hope to do this filtering automatically, as pages are
requested, via the CGI interface to the WWW.
However until some security questions are resolved,
I am currently using a  shell script 
to generate separate files for each view of my publication list.
  
Advantages of this method include:
   Replacing a large file with many small pages of more focused text 
leads to better hit rates from web search engines.
  It is easy to maintain a site with hundreds of pages,
since to add a page I merely have to add a few lines with that
keyword to the source file.
  When I get new information or change existing parts of my files,
I only have to change one file instead of finding all places
where the information is replicated.  This is especially useful
for my publications, in which one paper is typically listed
in a half-dozen or so pages.
  In web documents consisting of many related pages, all are formatted
consistently with each other, and formatting is easy to change for all
pages at once.
  It is easy to maintain a list of
recently added entries.  The filter program provides a mechanism
for comment lines recording the date, and to remove entries from the recent
list I need merely remove that keyword line from the file.
   

   
 Downloadable software  by
 David Eppstein ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine   Last update:  
 </body> 