 
	adrianoc – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
		
 	   	  		 Author Archive 
 	  
				 
				  New Scholarships  

				 
                	 February 3, 2014   Congratulations to Nick Lopez and Christian Adriano, who were recently granted the 2014 Miguel Velez scholarship. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on New Scholarships    

			 

				 
				  Visit to GE Research  

				 
                	 October 23, 2013   SDCL visited GE Research labs in San Ramon. We presented our recent work on software design collaboration and crowd coding. We also had the opportunity to discuss interesting industry challenges in the fields of user experience and collaboration technology. We kindly thank Roberto Silveira for all the awesome meetings we had with his research peers. 
				 

				   Posted in   Travel  |     Comments Off  on Visit to GE Research    

			 

				 
				  CrowdConf 2013  

				 
                	 October 23, 2013     Thomas La Toza and Christian Adriano have just attended CrowdConf. We received very interesting feedback on our CrowdCode platform. We also had extremely engaging conversations with people working on challenging crowdsourcing problems. 
				 

				   Posted in   Travel  |     Comments Off  on CrowdConf 2013    

			 

				 
				  FuSE 2013  

				 
                	 July 23, 2013   We attended the FuSE 2013 conference at Microsoft Research! Lots of interesting talks and engaging discussions on the future of software engineering.   
				 

				   Posted in   Travel  |     Comments Off  on FuSE 2013    

			 

				 
				  Affinity diagramming  

				 
                	 November 18, 2012   We had a lot of fun grouping the results of Evelina’s and Thomas’ interviews. Nick Mangano suggested an indexation. Nick Lopez came up with many labels (topics?) to one note. Michele complained about so much meta-data. Lee suggested a group for the “unrelated”. Since the sticky notes moved all over the walls, the outcome looks promising. More […] 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Affinity diagramming    

			 

				 
				  Groupwork on tablets  

				 
                	 October 18, 2012   Michele – looking amused at the funny cat pictures we found while restoring some images from the tablets (sometimes, servers crash and important work is almost lost…). 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Groupwork on tablets    

			 

		        
		         
              « Previous Page  
              
              
         
                
	 
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 