  CATS/Pal<body>
    CATS/Pal  
  
     Name:  
CATS/Pal. (The tool is called CATS, its input language is called
	PAL.)
 
     Source:  
Purdue University
 
     Brief description:  
CATS/Pal is a tool for statically analyzing concurrent programs.
	It is a prototype of task parcelling and composition techniques
	based on process algebra that will later be incorporated into
	the CATS tool suite. It includes: 
   An Ada-like design language (PAL) 
   An analysis tool (Pal) that
   translates specifications written in PAL into process graphs,
	   and constructs a hierarchical analysis plan based on scope
	   structure and task communication structures.
   performs reachability analysis and verifies correct implementations
           based on various notions of ``implements'' relations 
	   (bisimulations and preorders). 
   applies abstraction and reductions automatically or 
	   under user direction during hierarchical composition of
	   analysis results to control growth of the state-space.
   uses user-supplied context  assumptions to further prune the
 	   state-space, as well as verifying the validity of those
           assumptions. 
   can be configured as a single client/server pair (the default
	   configuration) or as multiple servers analyzing
	   sub-problems in parallel on a network of workstations.
     
     Evaluation against applicable general dimensions: 
    Availability: commercial/licensed/public domain  
Cost-free license.  Full sources are available by anonymous
	ftp to 
phosphor.cs.purdue.edu, directory pub/arcadia/PAL.
 
     Cost:  
Free if obtained over the internet.
 
     Degree of support/maturity/testing/usage:  
Limited support.  CATS/Pal was developed by a single graduate
	student, Wei Jen Yeh. The PAL language, translator, and 
	back-end analysis engine are now fairly stable, but
	Pal is not a commercial-quality tool.  
	Documentation is sparse, and the user
	interface is primitive.
	It has been successfully tested on many examples, including
	standard 
	``white rat'' problems from the literature (100 dining
	philosophers, Milner's scheduler, gas station, etc.) and
	a smaller number of more realistic problems including
	a model of PAL itself (in a multiple-server configuration) 
	and portions of the Chiron user interface development system.
 
     Speed:  
An individual process composition operation is at least one
	order of magnitude slower in Pal than in simpler brute-force 
	reachability analysis tools, and its capacity is similarly 
	limited.  However, analysis of much larger systems is possible
	when the reductions are successfully applied to limit growth
	of the state space. For instance, Pal requires more time to 
	analyze 3 dining philosophers than CATS (the Ada implementation) 
	requires for 7; but Pal analyzes 
	100 dining philosophers in less time (and less memory) than
	CATS takes to analyze 9 dining 	philosophers. Pal is
	competitive with non-enumerative analysis tools  like 
	constrained expression analysis for highly structured
	problems (faster on some, slower on others).
 
	Analysis of more realistic system designs
	is typically achievable if the 	system has a cleanly layered
	design; otherwise reorganization of the design (introduction
	of layering in the design, even if it is absent in the
	implementation) is necessary to achieve satisfactory results.
	Experience so far suggests that the structure required to make
	analysis feasible is also useful for understandability.
  
     Computing platforms:  
Developed and maintained on Sun Sparcstations under Sun OS 4.x
	with Austin/Kyoto Common Lisp version 615. Pal has been ported to
	System V R4 and SVR3 environments running on 80486 PC's, as
	well as Lucid Common Lisp version 4.0  under Sun OS. 
	Should port to other Unix systems with Common Lisp and
	sockets; porting to a new operating system or Lisp compiler
	requires modification of a small number of interface modules
	for inter-process communication and invocation of system
	services. Performance is best with at least 24M of 
	main memory; more is desirable.
 
     Language compatibilities:  
PAL language is based on Ada and supports most tasking constructs
	of Ada.  Also supports modeling of data values through 
	limited symbolic evaluation (also known as ``value flattening''). 
	Does not support many Ada features unrelated to tasking; in
	particular, the 'package' construct is not supported.
 
     Footprint: 
	    Source distribution  400 kB (compressed)
	        Full sources, binaries, and examples  48 MB
	   
	Sources are exclusive of the Lisp compiler.
  
     Openness/integrability/source availability:  
Source code (Common Lisp and C) is provided.
 
     Extensibility:  
This experimental prototype is not designed for
	extension by end users, although there are reasonably clean
	interfaces for extension or integration by developers.
 
     Pedigree: ARPA developed?  
Developed under NSF and ARPA sponsorship, including 
	a subcontract to the ARPA Arcadia program.
   
     Contact person(s) 
  Michal Young 
Department of Computer Sciences 
Purdue University 
West Lafayette, IN  47907 
young@cs.purdue.edu 
yeh@cs.purdue.edu 
(317) 494-6023 
(317) 494-0739 - fax
 
 
     Pointers to literature, demos, etc.:  
All papers are available by anonymous ftp to phosphor.cs.purdue.edu, 
directory pub/arcadia/papers.  See manifest for contents.
     Wei Jen Yeh and Michal Young.  Compositional reachability
	analysis of Ada programs using process algebra.  Preliminary
	version appeared in Proceedings of 
	the Fourth ACM Symposium on Software Testing, Analysis,
	and Verification (TAV4), Victoria, BC, October 1991;
	the ftp-able version is greatly revised and expanded
	(July 1993) and has been submitted for journal publication.
 
      Wei Jen Yeh and Michal Young, Redesigning Ada tasking programs
	for analysis, SERC technical report TR-148-P, December 1993, 
	submitted for publication.
 
      Wei Jen Yeh, Controlling State Explosion in Reachability
	Analysis, SERC technical report TR-147-P, August 1993
	(Ph.D. Dissertation).
 
      Demonstrations on request.
     
   
  
 The Arcadia Project
&lt;arcadia-www@ics.uci.edu&gt;  
Last modified: Wed Nov 30 14:40:38 1994
 
</body> 