 Euler's Formula<body>
     
  Euler's Formula,
Proof 12: Shelling
 

 Ziegler 
interprets a polyhedron or polytope as a complex of polyhedral
faces of varying dimensions.  He lets  f i   denote the number
of faces of dimension i, so  f  0 =V,
 f  1 =E, and  f  2 =F,
but he also adds faces of dimension  d  (the whole polytope)
and -1 (the empty face);  f  -1 = f d  =1.

Ziegler
defines a  shelling  of a complex of polyhedral faces
to be a linear ordering on the maximal-dimension faces ( facets )
such that, if the facets are of dimension at least one,
the ordering satisfies the following properties:
  The boundary of the first facet F 0  has a shelling.
  The intersection of each facet F  j   ( j  &gt; 0) with the
union of previous
facets is nonempty and forms the prefix of a shelling of F  j  .
  

Every convex polytope has a shelling found by traveling in a straight line
from some point near one face of the polyhedron, and ordering the faces
by the sequence of points at which the line crosses the plane of a face
and the face becomes visible.  (The line must be imagined to pass
"to infinity and beyond" through to the other side of the polyhedron.)
The intersection of a facet F  j   with previous facets
can be found
geometrically as the portion of the boundary of the facet
visible from the intersection point of the viewing line with the plane
of the facet; this shows that the lower-dimensional shelling required by
property 2 is of the same geometric type.

Ziegler then proves that any polytope
has Euler characteristic
X(P)=Sum(-1  i   f i  )=0,
by an induction on dimension and shelling length:
 
The base case, in which f -1 =f 0 =1, is clear.
Now if P is a  d -polytope with shelling order
F 1 ,F 2 ,... then we have
more precisely that
X(F 1  u F 2  u ... u F  j  )
is 0 for  j  &lt;  f   d -1 
and 1 for  j  =  f   d -1 
which follows by induction on  j , 
since the facets we add in are ( d -1)-polytopes, the Euler
characteristic is additive, and the intersection of F  j   with
previous facets is a shellable part of, but (for  j  &lt;
 f   d -1 )
not the whole boundary of
F  j   (Ziegler shows that this last observation is true
in general, but it is evident geometrically for the
shelling defined above).
 
Removing the two "extra" faces  f  -1  and
 f  3  from this sum
gives us the usual Euler formula.
    
 Proofs of Euler's Formula . 
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file.
Last update: .  </body> 