 SLI | Classes / CS274A: Probabilistic Learning <body>

       
   
  
     
     (?) 
   

     
           Classes 
   Group 
   Research 
   Publications 
   Code 
       
 

       

            login 
   

         
            Classes  / 
           CS274A: Probabilistic Learning  

 
    CLOSED : 2011 OFFERING    
  
   Assignments and Exams:</strong> 
 
    HW1   04/13/11   Soln            HW2   04/27/11   Soln           Midterm      Soln            HW3   05/23/11   Soln            HW4   06/03/11   Soln           Final      Soln                            Final  06/06/11  4:00-6:00           Discussion Page     
    Bren Hall 1200 , MWF 3-4pm 
  Introduction to probabilistic models, inference, and learning. 
 CS274A is an introductory course to probabilistic approaches to learning from data. Probabilistic models form an important part of many areas of computer science, and probabilistic learning (in this context, automatically constructing probabilistic models from data) has become an important tool in sub-fields such as artificial intelligence, data mining, speech recognition, computer vision, bioinformatics, signal processing, and many more. CS274A will provide an introduction to the concepts and principles which underly probabilistic models, and apply these principles to the development, analysis, and practical application of machine learning algorithms.
 
 The course will focus primarily on parametric probabilistic modeling, including data likelihood, parameter estimation using likelihood and Bayesian approaches, hypothesis testing and classification problems, density estimation, clustering, and regression. Related problems, including model selection, overfitting, and bias/variance trade-offs will also be discussed.
 
   Background.  
 The course is intended to be an introduction to probabilistic learning, and thus has few explicit requirements. Students are expected to be familiar with basic concepts from probability, linear algebra, multivariate calculus, etc. Homeworks will use the MATLAB programming environment, but no prior experience with MATLAB is required for the course.
 
   Course format.  
 Three lectures per week (MWF). Homeworks due  in class</strong> approximately every two weeks. Two exams (midterm and final). Grading: 40% homework, 25% midterm, 35% final.
 
   Office Hours. 
 Office hours for the course are 3pm Tuesdays, or by appointment.
 
   Collaboration. 
 Discussion of the course concepts and methods among the students is encouraged; however, all work handed in should be completely your own.  In order to strike a balance, we'll use the "work product" rule: while discussing anything related to the homework, you should retain no work product created during the discussion.  In other words, you can meet and discuss the problems, describe the solution, etc., but then all parties must go away from the meeting with no record (written notes, code, etc.) from the meeting and do the homework problem on your own.  If you work on a whiteboard, just erase it when you're done discussing.  Don't show someone else your homework, or refer to it during the discussion, since by this policy you must then throw it away.
 
   Textbooks.  
 The required textbook for the course is Bishop's "Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning", but lectures are likely to follow the book only loosly. Other recommended reading include MacKay's "Information Theory, Inference, and Learning Algorithms" (available online at  http://www.inference.phy.cam.ac.uk/mackay/itila/ ), Duda, Hart, and Stork's "Pattern Classification", and Hastie, Tibshirani, and Friedman's "Elements of Statistical Learning".
 
   Matlab 
 Often we will write code for the course using the  Matlab  environment.  Matlab is accessible through NACS computers at several campus locations (e.g., 
 MSTB-A , 
 MSTB-B ,
and the  ICS lab ), and if you want a copy for yourself student licenses are fairly inexpensive ($100).  Personally, I do not recommend the open-source Octave program as a replacement, as the syntax is not 100% compatible and may cause problems (for me or you).  
 
 If you are not familiar with Matlab, there are a number of tutorials on the web:
    University of Utah , very short
   CMU / UMichigan tutorial , also short
   University of Florida's tutorial , more complete
   Union College / Cyclismo.Org tutorial , also good
   UMaryland guide , lots of pointers to other tutorials and reference manuals
   You may want to start with one of the very short tutorials, then use the longer ones as a reference during the rest of the term.
 
   (Tentative) Schedule of Topics. 
 All lectures are recorded, but in some the audio is not so good (due to some failure between my hands-free and the recording software); sorry about any of those.
 
  
   Week 1  Introduction, probability distributions; frequentist vs. Bayesian viewpoints   Slides ,  Lecture        Bayes' rule, exponential family distributions   Slides ,  Lecture        Conditional independence; graphical models; multivariate Gaussians   Slides ,  Lecture     For a review of probability, a few good references are: Prof. Smyth's 274A handout #1 on  probability ; the textbook by Olofsson, "Probability, Statistics &amp; Stochastic Processes" (Bayes Rule, 43-56; random variables and expectation, 77-108; joint distributions, 159-?) and a UCLA stat wiki that is not verbose, but might serve as a reminder; see e.g.  Fundamentals ,  Rules ,  RVs ,  Expectations .    Week 2  More Gaussians; intro to learning, likelihood, parameters  Read Prof. Smyth's  handout #2 ;  Slides ,  Lecture        ML learning I: data likelihood, univariate ML; bias &amp; variance   Slides ,  Lecture        ML learning II: multivariate; exponential family   Slides ,  Lecture     Week 3       Bayesian learning I: priors, posterior distributions; MAP &amp; MPE estimates   Slides ,  Lecture        Bayesian learning II: conjugate priors; beta-binomial   Slides ,  Lecture     Week 4  Bayesian learning III: Gaussian models; Bayes optimal decisions   Slides ,  Lecture        Classification and regression problems as parameter estimation   Slides ,  Lecture        Bias/variance and Bayesian priors for regression   Slides ,  Lecture     Week 5  (continued)   Slides ,  Lecture        Logistic regression;  Reading</strong> PRML Ch 4   Slides ,  Lecture        Review    Week 6  MIDTERM       Mixture models and EM;  Reading</strong>  Smyth handout , PRML Ch 9   Slides ,  Lecture        Complexity and model selection; marginal likelihood, BIC approximation;  Reading</strong> PRML 3.5, 4.4   Slides ,  Lecture     Week 7  Latent space representations; PCA &amp; Probabilistic PCA   Slides ,  Lecture        Hidden Markov models   Slides ,  Lecture        Hidden Markov models   Slides ,  Lecture     Week 8  Monte Carlo methods   Slides ,  Lecture            Slides ,  Lecture            Slides ,  Lecture     Week 9  A brief return to graphical models              Week 10  Misc topics and review     Final Exam</strong>  06/06/2011  Final exam, 4-6pm     
 

       
       
      Last modified January 19, 2015, at 04:37 PM 
     
     Bren School of Information and Computer Science   University of California, Irvine 
     
   
</body> 