 Novel Degrees of Flexibility in Computational Cameras 

 

  Novel Degrees of Flexibility in Computational Cameras  

 

   


 

        

        

    

 

  Camera consumers are
forced to live with several trade-offs originating from conflicting demands on
the quality. For example, broad-band filters (e.g. CMY), being more light efficient
than narrow-band filters (e.g. RGB), are desired for low-illumination scenes
(e.g. night/dark scenes). But, they result in more noise in lighted scenes and have lower color fidelity. However, since
current cameras come with fixed RGB or CMY CFAs, users have to accept
sub-optimal image quality either for dark or bright scenes.   

  Similarly, faithful
capture of colourful scenes demand more than three primaries that trades off
the spatial resolution making it not suitable for architectural scenes with
detailed patterns and facades. However, since current cameras come with a fixed
number of primaries, users cannot change the spatial and spectral resolution as
demanded by the scene conditions. Single shot HDR cameras suffer from a similar
trade-off, sacrificing the resolution to achieve a higher dynamic range.  

 Switchable Modes Using Shiftable CFAs 

  We tried to overcome such limitations by offering new
degrees of flexibility using novel optical designs and computational methods.
We observed that by using multiple layers of color filter arrays that can precisely
move on top of each other, one can switch between different color primaries
(e.g. RGB/CMY/RGBCMY) or generally, different operational modes (e.g. LDR/HDR).
This allows the photographers to choose different trade-offs based on the
nature of the scene and the purpose of the photography. We demonstrated this
concept using several preliminary prototypes that can encourage the use of such
ideas in consumer level cameras.   

     Publications:     

      Behzad Sajadi    ,  Aditi Majumder, Kazuhiro Hiwada, Atsuto Maki, Ramesh Raskar,   Switchable Primaries Using Shiftable Layers of Color Filter Arrays   , ACM Siggraph, 2011 (
     Video ,
     Presentation )        


 
  </body> 