 CS 262, Spring 2013<body>
 CS 262   Computational Complexity   Spring 2013 
   Instructor  
Sandy Irani   4042 Bren Hall
 
 irani@ics.uci.edu
  Class Times and Place 
MW 9:30-10:50
 
DBH 1431
  Course Overview  
The study of computational complexity is concerned with the question of
what can we computed with limited resources (time, space, randomness, parallelism, communication, etc.).
We will define general classes of problems that can be solved with a particular set of
resources and will study the relationships between these classes.
We will provide proofs for many of  the known relationships between these classes.
  Prerequisites  
The best course to have taken in preparation for this class is
an undergraduate class on automata theory. An undergraduate class in
algorithms is also good background. The course, however, is fairly self-contained
and should be accessible to
any student who is comfortable with mathematical abstraction and proofs.

  Course Requirements  
There will be a total of five problem sets, due on Monday of week 3, 5, 7, 9 and the first day
of finals period.
 
  Homework Policies:  
The homework exercised are an essential part of this course
because the practice solving problems is important part of
understanding the material. You can probably find many of the
solutions to the homework exercises on the internet or in the
literature but you will not get the benefit of solving the problems
on your own. Therefore, the only sources you are allowed to consult
in solving  these problems are the recommended texts and notes from class
(either mine, yours or those of another student).
  
I encourage you to work in small groups, but you must note your
collaborators on the homework you turn in. In addition, you must
write up your own solutions without any collaboration.
  
You are also encouraged to put your solutions into LaTeX.
Here is a template that you can use:
 
Homework Template
 .
    Course Materials  
I will provide my own course notes before every lecture (although not necessarily very much in advance).
When they are posted, you can reach them by clicking on the topic name in the course outline below.
This is theoretically all you should need for understanding the material in class. However, you may
wish to consult my sources in preparing these notes. These are:
  Course slides  from Chris Umans'  
Computational Complexity   class at Caltech. 
  Computational Complexity,  by Christos Papadimitriou, Addison Wesley, 1993, ISBN: 978-0201530827 
 Computational Complexity: A Modern Approach, by Arora and Barak, Cambridge University Press,
2009, ISBN: 978-0521424264 
   Lecture Topics and Homework  

   
Week
 
 
Topic
 
 
Homework
 
   
Week 1
 
 
 
Languages, Turing Machines, Completeness
 
 
 
-
 
   
Week2
 
 
 
Complexity Classes
 
 
 
 
Homework 1
 
 
   
Week 3
 
 
 
Non-determinism
 
  
Non-determinism, Part II
 
  
Non-deterministic Space
 
 
 
 
Homework 2
 
 
   
Week 4
 
 
 
Circuits, Uniformity and advice, NC
   
Randomness
 
 
 
-
 
   
Week 5
 
 
 
Randomness: ranomized complexity classes, error reduction, pseudo-randomnumber generators.
 
 
 
 
Homework 3
 
 
   
Week 6
 
 
 
Alternation and the Polynomial Hierarchy.
 
 
 
-
 
   
Week 7
 
 
 
Complexity of Counting.
 
 
 
 
Homework 4
 
 
   
Week 8
 
 
 
Interactive Complexity Classes
 
 
 
-
 
   
Week 9
 
 
 
Intro to PCP and Hardness of Approximation
   
NP contained in PCP[ poly, 1 ]
 
 
 
-
 
   
Week 10
 
 
Probabilistically Checkable Proofs and Hardness of Approximation
 
 
 
Homework 5
 
 
  </body> 