 aboutuci<body>

    University of California, Irvine 
      
 The University of California, Irvine (UCI) opened in 1965 with 116 faculty and 1,589 students. In the succeeding years, UCI has attained national and international distinction in its programs and faculty. The campus challenges its students both academically and personally and relies on the commitment, curiosity, imagination, and judgment of its faculty and students to assure its continued intellectual and cultural vitality. 
 Today, UCI has about 18,000 students and 1,400 faculty. The campus is planning to grow at approximately 5% per year, presenting many new opportunities for prospective faculty and students. 
 Two Nobel Prizes in 1995 for founding faculty  F. Sherwood Rowland  in Chemistry and  Frederick Reines  in Physics, helped to secure UCI's position among the leading American research universities. Membership in the American Association of Universities (AAU), a group of 60 of the most distinguished research institutions, is another indication of UCI's stature in the academic community. UC Irvine is the nation's eighth best public university, up from number nine last year, according to U.S. News &amp; World Report's annual ranking of America's leading public and private universities.  
 UCI's research programs have a positive impact on both undergraduate and graduate education. Research is critical to graduate education because of the research-oriented nature of doctoral study. At the undergraduate level, students have access to a faculty made up of researchers at the forefront of their fields and also have opportunities to participate directly in faculty research projects.
  
 
Take a multimedia tour of UCI . Designed by ICS students interning
at  NetGui .

        Join ICS      |      Undergraduate Program      |      Masters Program      |      Ph.D. Program      |      Faculty Positions    
   |       About ICS      |      About UCI      |      About Irvine      |      ICS Chair     |      Corporate Affiliates   
   </body> 