 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
<title>Jie Ren's Research 
 
 
 
 

<body>
 
 
 
   
  Jie Ren (&#x4efb;&#x6770;)  
 
 
 Area   Software  
 
 
 Advisor   Richard N. Taylor  
 
 
 E-mail   jie@ics.uci.edu  
 
 
 
 
 
 &nbsp;Biography&nbsp; 
 &nbsp;&nbsp;Research&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Teach&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Work&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 &nbsp;&nbsp;Service&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 Publication 
 &nbsp;&nbsp;Contact&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 
 
 
 
 
My research interest
centers around pragmatic software development, with an emphasis on infrastructure
and architecture support for secure, large-scale, and heterogeneous software. Specially,
I am interested in how to achieve a secure software architecture in architecture-driven,
component-based, message-oriented software development. 
  Secure Software Architecture, July 2003--December 2005  
 This research explores notations, techniques and tools to support design and analysis of security of component-based software. 
The insights are that a secure software architecture methodology advances state of art for secure software design and analysis, and that a first class connector facilitates expressing, 
constructing, integrating, enforcing, reusing and evolving security properties among heterogeneous components. 
 This research about secure software architecture focuses on architectural access control. It is based a secure software architecture description language, Secure xADL, which includes a set of  security extensions to  the xADL
architecture description language . The proposed extensions model core security concepts:  subject, principal, permission, resource, privilege, safeguard , and  policy . These extensions enable supporting different access control models in a software architectural environment. 
Four types of contexts for architectural access control are also identified: 1) the nearby constituents of components and connectors, 2) the types of components and connectors, 3) the containing sub-architecture, and 4) the global architecture.
The language is aided by usable design, analysis and execution tools. The language and its support tools facilitate software architects to adopt this methodology for designing and analyzing secure software architecture.  
 The contributions of this research include: 
 
 
	 
	A novel approach to the design and analysis of the access control property for software architectures. 	
	 
	 
	A usable formalism for modeling and reasoning about architectural access control.
	 
	 
	An algorithm for checking whether the architectural model maintains proper access control at design time.
	 
	 
	A novel approach to constructing secure connectors. 
	 
	 
	A suite of usable tools to design and analyze secure software.
	 
 
 Event-based Security Visualization, April 2004--September 2005  
 The  Swirl  project investigates how 
usable security can be achieved by visualizing security-relevant events delivered by the messaging infrastructure. 
The research hypotheses are as follows. First, traditional security mechanisms must be utilized in a user-centered context 
to provide effective security for users. Second, users make security related decisions within a context. 
Different contexts require different degrees of security. Third, users’ perceptions of the context can be facilitated by 
visualizing security related events that come from heterogeneous sources. Finally, perceptions and decisions related to 
security should be well integrated with users’ main tasks. 
 The Impromptu file sharing application is the test bed for these hypotheses. A description of its secure architecture design can be found  here . 
The security goals of Impromptu are to make security visible and to ease security configuration. A first prototype is available  here . It uses a secure 
 WebDAV  connector that  employs an IP address-based authentication scheme and a method-based authorization mechanism. 
 A rearchitected version  is under development. This version uses standard 
 web.xml deployment descriptor  authorization and  WebDAV ACL  authorization.  
 Bridge between procedure call and message passing, August 2002--June 2003 

	 
	The aim of this project is to design a bridge that integrates two software communication paradigms, procedure call and message passing,
	seamlessly, so a component written according to one paradigm can use its native communication style to interoperate
	with a component written in another paradigm. A library that bridges  COM 
	and  ArchStudio 3  has been developed as a proof of concept.  Here  is its description. 

 Visio Editor for C2/xADL, July 2000--October 2001 

	 
	 Visio Editor for C2/xADL  is a graphical front
	end of  ArchStudio 3 . It can be used to create and visualize
	 xADL 2.0  documents
	graphically, with special support for the  C2 
	architecture style. It is based on  Microsoft Visio .
	Here are some  background
	information  and a short  talk 
	about it.  

 
 
 
   Last Modified: 
		 April 24, 2006 
   
   
	 
	  
	 
	  
   
 
</body>
  
