 untitled<body>

    UC IRVINE - ICS 125 PROJECT IN SYSTEM DESIGN 
     Assignment 2: Requirements  
     
      Due in class on Feb 1 with Presetations Feb 1, 2, 3 

 Assignment Requirements 

 This assignment consists of two parts: 1) a requirements document
and 2) an in-class presentation. The content of the document is
outlined below. Make it look professional but be practical (don't
waste time). Requirements documents should be clear, complete,
correct, and concise. Grading will be based on the content and quality
of the requirements document and the oral presentation. The content of
the oral presentation is outlined at the end of this
page. 

 Note: Requirements specification documents and oral presentations will
vary from project to project, and team to team. Use your judgement in
selecting the beset approach for your project and team. 

 Purpose and Content 

 Requirements documents serve many purposes. They specifiy the goals and scope of the
project. In some cases, they are like a contract between the customer and the developers.
They are the basis for testing. And in this project, the requirements document will also
outline a development schedule. 

 A good requirements document desribes what the system will do, in a clear and
unambiguous way. This can be achieved through careful wording, screen mock-ups or other
graphics, and requirements analysis diagrams. A good requirements document can be used to
answer questions such as: Is the system supposed to do X or not? How will the system
handle it if the user does Y? Who will use the system and for what purposes? Under what
environments (machine type, operation system, etc.) will the system work? 

 The requirements document will consist of     Title Page .  
     names of team members  
     date  
     assignment name  
     project name, nickname, logo  
     version number (use version 1.0 when you hand in the document)  
     Summary . A two page summary of the project:  
    Who's the customer?  
     What's the project about?  
     What are major functional and non-functional requirements?  
     What is anticipated as an acceptance test?  
     What are your target implementation platforms?  
     Consider using a hierarchical organization: first a one paragraph overview emphasizing
      goals, then more details in the following paragraphs.  
     Remember that the customer is going to read this. The customer's boss might read it too.
      Be clear and to-the-point. Avoid jargon. Avoid hype. Double-check spelling and grammar.  
     Glossary . 
    Define any unusual words or unusual usage of common words, e.g., application domain terms. 
     Use Cases, Scenarios, Mock-up's .  
    You may choose the best way to clarify and specify your systems funtionality. I suggest Mock-up's and Scenarios followed by an text outline of requirements. You may wish to specify Use Cases as you did in ICS 121. 
     Some of you may choose diagrammatic presentations for complex functionality. You may use Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, etc. 
     Some of you working on database functionality may choose to use entity relationship diagrams or another way to specify record designs. 
     Deliverables . What are you going to give to the customer? (include the items that
    apply)  
    Software: Executables? In what format/media?  
     Dococumentation: User's manual? On-line help? Web site? What will be in these documents?
     
     Development artifacts: Source code? Design docs?   Test cases?  
     Supporting   artifacts: Example documents? Templates?  
     Support: Warranty? Rights to bug fixes? Rights to request improvement?   
     Delivery Platform . What hardware/software/database/etc. will be needed to run the
    system? This is usually specified by your client.  
    Development Platform.  What   hardware/software/database/etc. will you need
    to develop the system? This is usually decided by you.  
    Milestones and Effort . A sequence of milestones. For each milestone:  
    What requirements (functional or non-) are addressed.  
     What will be accomplished.  
     Date anticipated (remember there will be updates during weeks 6,7, and 8).  
     Estimate of your effort and cost (state assumptions, e.g., cost of man hours).  
     Acceptance Test Plan . Be specific as possible. If you have specific data sets
    from your client, describe or include them.  
    Terms and Authorization . Who will own the software when it is done? Who has to
    sign before you can start billing time?  
     Conclusion . What will your team members gain as
individuals and your
team gain as a whole by doing this project? Perhaps
you will talk about new
skills? Tangibles? Intangibles?
      


 Comments 

 Projects often begin vaguely. Clients do not have complete ideas about the work that
should be done. They may not fully anticipate their needs. A requirements document starts
to sort out the details and make them more clear for both you and the client.  

 Ideally, you will write the requirements in their "final" form. In reality,
the requirements will be revised over time as you and the client learn more about the
project. Emphasize clarity of intent and scope over very detailed specification of
particular features. Try to meet with the customer to review and revise the document, if
possible. 

 Try to use document formatting that enhances clarity and will be maintainable. Use
numbered lists when order is important, bulleted list for unordered items. Use tables when
there are lots of items (rows) that must have similar parts (columns), or when computing
totals. Use mathematical notation, not English, to specify mathematical relationships. Use
digarams or pictures to specify visual or spacial requirements.Make sure you can
unambiguously refer to a specific part of the requirements document: for example, the
customer might ask you if a certain requirement is satisfied yet, you want to be sure that
you are both talking about the same requirement. 

 Grade yourself by using your document to answer these questions: What would it be like
to use this system? What and how much can a user do with the system? If the customer is
unhappy with the resulting system, can you confidently say "That is what you
authorized when you signed the requirements document"? Would two people who read the
same requirements document imagine the same system? 

 There are certain sections of the document where you need to write very precise English
text. Ask yourself how each sentence could be misunderstood. Avoid words with vauge
meanings or double meanings. Use specific amounts instead of vauge terms when possible.
Include units in any measurements. Ask one of your team members to come up with a
misinterpretation of what you wrote. 

   

  Requirements Presentations/Reviews. 
Dates: Feb 1,2,3

 Each team should prepare a 15 minute presentation, after which we will
allow up to 5 minutes of questions. Your customer should be present. 

  
Prepare your presentation appropriately. Your presentation should include
the following:
    Title Slide (with team name, members, emails, date, etc 
  Overview of your system (breif summary statement) 
  Highlights of your requirements specification including 
      Use Cases, Mock-up's, Scenarios, to communicate functionality 
     Summary of required capabilities, with a diagram if available; 
       one or more detailed requirements for the most important capabilities
       (pick the key issues to discuss in detail);
     Deliverables 
 Delivery Platform, Development Platform 
  Lifecycle considerations 
  Current state of your project milestones with dates, noting potential exporsures/risks   (how you intend to develop the system throughout the lifecycle);
  System test plan 
 how you intend to both demonstrate that the system should be accepted
as well as how you intend to convince yourselves that it is more than acceptable!).
 Technology Transfer, Maintenance, Other Considerations 
    Be   sure   to focus your presentation on the key issues.  Don't
spend time with the obvious things.  If there's something in your presentation
that you find boring, so will your audience.  Don't gloss over problems. Your
customer wants you to succeed, your instructors want you to succeed.   They can't
help you unless you tell them where you think the problems are, or are likely to
be.

  
You should also ask your customer what he would like to see presented.

  
    ICS125 WQ00 Assignments   ICS125 WQ00   David F. Redmiles Home Page   Department of Information and Computer Science   University of California, Irvine CA 92717-3425  

    
</body> 