 ICS 10A Course Reference  *  Fall 2003<body>
  
 
 F ALL  Q UARTER  2003
--  Information and Computer Science 
--  UC Irvine   
 
 ICS 10A Course Reference  
 
 I NFORMATION :  P RESENTATION
AND  R EPRESENTATION   
  
  Instructor:    David G. Kay  ,
406B Computer Science (   kay@uci.edu   )  
 
  Teaching assistant:   Shubha Tandon 
  (  tandons@ics.uci.edu  )  
 
  Course goals:   This course will introduce
you to modern computing, from three perspectives:  
 
 * Practical computing skills, including word
processing, spreadsheets, and Internet tools like electronic mail and the
World-Wide Web.  You will learn these techniques primarily in discussion
section and through lab assignments.  Computer skills, like any skills,
are learned mainly through practice and experience; a year of lectures on
riding bicycles or playing piano won't bring you much closer to doing
it yourself, and the same is true of using a computer productively.    
 
 * "Computer literacy"--a broad view
of how computers work, what they do, how they have developed, and how they
may affect us now and in the future.  As you know, technology changes rapidly.
 By taking a broad perspective and looking at underlying principles (e.g.,
what an operating system does and how it works rather than just what commands
to use in Windows or on a Mac to accomplish some specific task), your understanding
will last you beyond next year's new models and versions.  
 
 * "Information literacy"--We often
hear that we live in an "information age" and suffer from "information
overload."  You will learn how to find information, what forms it may
take, how to evaluate it for accuracy and reliability, and how to present
it most effectively to others.   
 
 Our overall goal is to give you a basic framework
for making intelligent decisions about computers and computing.  We don't
expect most students in ICS 10A to have careers as computer professionals,
but most of you  will  purchase computing equipment, manage computing
professionals, and make political, business, and personal decisions that
depend on an understanding of computing.   
 
  Meeting place and times:   Lecture meets
Tuesdays and Thursdays from 9:30 to 10:50 in Social Ecology II room 1304.
 You must also enroll in the discussion section, which meets Monday/Wednesday/Friday
at 11:00 in Social Science Lab 290, and one of the two lab sections (MWF
at 12 or MWF at 1 in Computer Science 183).  
 
  Office hours:   Starting the second
week, I will be in or near my office during these scheduled hours, during
which course-related matters will have first priority:  Wednesdays from
2:30 to 3:30 and Thursdays from 2:15 to 3:00.  Of course emergencies may
come up, but I will try to give advance notice of any change.  If I'm
not immersed in something else, I'll be glad to answer short questions
whenever I'm in my office, so feel free to drop by any time.  I'll
also be happy to make arrangements for other times during the week.  The
quickest and most effective way to reach me is by electronic mail, as described
below.  
 
  Questions and announcements:   You can
usually get a response to your course-related questions within a few hours
(perhaps a bit longer on the weekends) by sending electronic mail to the
address    ics10a@uci.edu   .
 This goes to all of us, and whoever reads it first can respond.  If you
need to reach one of us individually, our individual addresses are listed
above.  
 
 We may also send course announcements by Email
to the official course mailing list, so you should check your Email regularly.
 Note that this mailing list goes to the Email address that the registrar
has for you (your UCInet ID); if you prefer to read your Email on another
account, you should set your UCInet account to forward Email to your preferred
account (see    http://phwww.cwis.uci.edu/cgi-bin/phupdate   ).
 This course has a home page at    http://eee.uci.edu/03f/36200   
(which you can reach from the instructor's home page,    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay   );
official course Email is archived at    http://eee.uci.edu/03f/w3m3/36200   ;
and a course Note Board for student-to-student discussions is available
when you log on to   eee.uci.edu  
.  
 
  Labs and lab hours:   As shown above,
each student in ICS 10A has three section meetings a week, on Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday.  The first hour of each meeting is in a classroom; the second
hour is in the computer lab, CS 183.  Although you are perfectly welcome
to use your own machine for your lab work in this class, you should take
advantage of these scheduled times, when your TA and classmates will be
present.  For some assignments, we will expect you and a classmate to work
as a pair; for any assignment, you should feel free to help your classmates
(though of course that stops short of copying someone else's work, and
the person receiving the help should be sure to understand  how  to
do the task, not just what the answer is).  
 
 The ICS 10A TA will be available in the lab
during the scheduled lab sections.  TAs won't simply give you answers
to your problems, but they will help you find the answers yourself; it's
essential that you develop your own independent skills, since you won't
always have an expert available to help you.  
 
  Other useful addresses:   The Engineering
Copy Center (ECC), in room 203 of Engineering Tower, is where we may place
some supplementary course materials (such as a sample midterm); the ECC
is open 8-12 and 1-4:30, Monday through Friday.  
 
  Textbooks:   Each of these is available,
or will be shortly, in the UCI Bookstore.  
 
  Fluency with Information Technology, 
by Lawrence Snyder.  This text covers the main content of the course.  The
text's web page is    http://www.aw.com/snyder   .  
 
  Visual &amp; Statistical Thinking: Displays
of Evidence for Decision Making,  by Edward R. Tufte.  This reprint of
Chapter 2 of Tufte's book,  Visual Explanations,  describes two
situations where the way information was presented had life-or-death consequences.  
 
  The Cognitive Style of PowerPoint, 
by Edward R. Tufte.  This short monograph takes a critical look at the use
of PowerPoint, a pervasive means of presenting information.  
 
  Additional materials:    You will need
a few diskettes (standard 1.4MB floppy disks) this quarter, starting with
the first lab assignment.  You can buy them at the ECC, the UCI Computer
Store, and off campus.  
 
  Course structure:
    Approximately eight assignments , 
some with pencil and paper, some on the computer in the lab, typically due
at the start of Wednesday's section (35% of the course grade).  All
the assignments will be available at the following Web address, where it
will be up to you to find and read them:    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/10a/hw/   
.
  One midterm:   Given in class on Tuesday, October 28 (25%)
   One final exam : 
 On Thursday, December 11, from 8:00 to 10:00 a.m.  (40%)  
 
 Your TA has primary responsibility for evaluating
your work; go to him or her first for any questions about grading or scoring.
 If that does not resolve your question, then see the instructor.  The TAs
and instructor will be happy to correct any errors that do occur, but we
must ask that you bring us your grading questions within a week after the
item is returned; the course moves quickly, and we simply can't deal
with assignments long past.  
 
 We determine final grades neither on a formal
curve (with equal numbers of As and Fs, Bs and Ds, etc.) nor on a fixed,
straight scale.  Scores on the scale shown below will get the grades indicated,
but in the past the actual cutoffs have often been significantly lower;
this means that you should not assume your grade will be as low as the scale
indicates.  If you're concerned, check with your TA or the instructor.
 The basic scale is:  grades in the A range (A-, A, and in exceptional cases,
A+), 90% and above; grades in the B range, 80%-90%; grades in the C range,
70%-80%.  
 
 We're required to say that in unusual
circumstances, these criteria could change, but we do not expect that to
happen.  
 
  What you must do this week to get started
in ICS 10A:
  -- If you do not have a UCInet ID (an account on the EA system for reading
electronic mail), get one.  See    http://www.oac.uci.edu/computing/activate.html   
.
 
-- If you prefer to read your electronic mail on an account other than your
UCInet account, redirect your mail at    http://phwww.cwis.uci.edu/cgi-bin/phupdate 
   -- On the Web, go to   checkmate.ics.uci.edu  ,
log in with your UCInet ID, choose "Course Listing" for "Fall
2003," click "Go" next to ICS 10A, and then click "List
me for this course."  You'll submit most of your work electronically;
this step is necessary to set that up.
 
-- If you do not have an ICS account for access to the Windows network in
ICS, get one.  See    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~lab/procedures/activate.html 
  .
 
-- Get at least one diskette and a lab printing key-card.
 
-- Be sure to attend your discussion and lab sections this week.
 
-- If necessary, brush up on your basic skills for browsing the Web, reading
and sending Email, preparing simple documents using Word, and finding programs
and files on the Windows system in the lab.
 
-- Give a snapshot of yourself (with your name written on the back) to your
TA.  This will help us learn your names quickly.  (This is not just for
fun--it's a course requirement.)  Also turn in your signed Questionnaire
to your TA in discussion section.  
 
  Good advice and helpful hints:   Make
every effort to attend the lectures; we will make important announcements
and often cover material that isn't found in the textbook.  It's
not fair to ask the TAs simply to repeat lecture material you missed, though
of course they will answer questions about it.  
 
 Attend your discussion section, too; assignments
will be distributed, discussed, and collected there, exams will be reviewed
there, and you can ask more questions there than you can in lecture.  Discussion
section is where you will get advice and information specific to the lab
assignments; missing your section is like doing the assignments with both
hands tied behind your back.  Don't hesitate to ask your TA to cover
things that will help you.  
 
 If you find yourself having trouble or getting
behind, speak with your TA or the instructor.  But  never  take the
shortcut of copying someone else's work and turning it in; the consequences
can be far worse than just a low score on a lab assignment.  ICS takes academic
honesty very seriously; for a more complete discussion, see the ICS departmental
web page covering academic honesty issues (   http://www.ics.uci.edu/~ucounsel/continuing_students/cheat.html   ).  
 
 Check your electronic mail regularly; this
is an official channel for course announcements.  
 
 Be sure to read each assignment over, and
think about how to solve it, before you come to lab.  The lab assignments,
like all technical specifications, require careful and thorough reading
and re-reading.  Expect to refer back to the assignment often, and check
it first when you have questions about what's required or how to proceed.  
 
 Start early doing the lab assignments.  Please
remember that computing assignments always take longer to complete than
you think they will, even if you have previous experience.  Pitfalls and
stumbling blocks are an inevitable part of computing (surely you've
seen dozens of cartoons showing people frustrated with their computers);
of course these problems aren't ever foreseeable, so the only effective
strategy is to allow more time than you think you will need.  By starting
early, you'll have time to ask in discussion section about problems
you encounter.  
 
 Always keep your own copy of each assignment,
both on diskette and on paper; if an assignment should get lost in the shuffle
(or if a file server in the lab should crash, which has happened), we'll
expect you to be able to supply a replacement easily.     
 
 Keep up with the reading; you'll need
it to do your assignments, and the quarter goes so fast that a few missed
pages can quickly become a few chapters if you're not careful.  Read
the assigned sections early and quickly (for the main ideas, not to memorize
every detail); then you can ask your TA in section which parts merit closer
attention.  
 
 Students usually receive grades of B or better
when they follow this advice; nearly everyone who receives lower grades
has neglected one or more of these suggestions.  
   
  Approximate course outline:   
        
   Week     
 
  Date    
 
  Topic    
 
  Readings (Chapters in Snyder unless otherwise
specified)   
   
  1.    
 
 30 September   
 
 Introduction to the course, computers, information   
 
 1, 2    
   
        
 
 2 October   
 
 Internet overview
 Web browsing, searching, indexes   
 
 3, 5, 6  
   
  2.    
 
 7 October   
 
 Web publishing and HTML 
 Overview of information concepts   
 
 4  
   
        
 
 9 October   
 
 The processor (CPU):  Fundamental machine
operations   
 
 9  
   
  3.    
 
 14 October   
 
 More machine-level operations   
 
  
   
        
 
 16 October   
 
 Evolution of high-level programming languages
and tools   
 
 10  
   
  4.    
 
 21 October   
 
 Data representation in computer systems   
 
 8  
   
        
 
 23 October   
 
 Secondary storage and peripheral devices
 Operating systems and networks   
 
      
   
  5.    
 
 28 October   
 
  Midterm exam    
 
  
   
        
 
 30 October   
 
 Digitizing pictures and sound   
 
   11  
   
  6.    
 
 4 November   
 
 Redundancy and compression   
 
  
   
        
 
 6 November   
 
 Probability:  Representing (un)certainty   
 
  
   
  7.    
 
 11 November   
 
  -- Veterans' Day holiday --    
 
       
   
        
 
 13 November   
 
 Advanced web searching; boolean queries   
 
    
   
  8.    
 
 18 November   
 
 User interface issues   
 
      
   
        
 
 20 November   
 
 Presenting information effectively   
 
 Both Tufte reprints  
   
  9.    
 
 25 November   
 
 Models of information organization; representing
procedures   
 
          
   
        
 
 27 November   
 
  -- Thanksgiving holiday --    
 
        
   
  10.    
 
 2 December   
 
 Legal and social issues   
 
 12, 17, 23  
   
          
 
 4 December   
 
 Epilogue and review   
 
 24       
   
           
 
 11 December   
 
   Final exam , Thursday,
8:00 to 10:00   
 
       
    It's a good strategy to read any assigned
passage quickly for the main ideas first; you won't need every detail
of the readings. 
  
 
  
  
  David G. Kay ,
 408E Computer Science
   University of California, Irvine 
   Irvine, CA  92697-3425  
 --     (949) 824-5072   
 --  Fax    (949) 824-4056   
 --  Email   
     kay@uci.edu 
    

 
 Tuesday, January 25, 2005 -- 7:09 PM  
</body> 