 Meet the Dean @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                      ABOUT  

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  About  


     
 Meet the Dean 

 
 

    Marios C. Papaefthymiou, Ph.D.</strong>   Ted and Janice Smith Family Foundation Dean  (as of Jan. 1, 2017)    Professor of Computer Science
 Marios C. Papaefthymiou, professor of computer science and dean of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences, leads the school in its mission of providing computer science and information technology leadership for the 21st century through research and development of emerging technologies; collaborations that address societal concerns; and innovative and broad curricula. 
 Papaefthymiou came to UC Irvine in 2017 as the third dean for ICS. Before coming to UC Irvine, Papaefthymiou served as chair of computer science and engineering and professor of electrical engineering and computer science at the University of Michigan, where he was a longtime advocate for innovation in education. Prior to his appointment as chair, he was the director of the university’s Advanced Computer Architecture Laboratory for 11 years. He also spent three years teaching at Yale. His research addresses a broad spectrum of problems in computer design with an emphasis on architectures and design methodologies for energy-efficient, high-performance computers. As an expert in energy-efficient computing, Papaefthymiou has authored more than 100 publications on the subject and is co-founder and Chief Scientist of Cyclos Semiconductor, a startup specializing in energy-efficient chips for power-critical applications. His many accolades include a Young Investigator Award from the Army Research Office, a CAREER award from the National Science Foundation and several IBM Faculty Partnership Awards. Papaefthymiou grew up in Athens, Greece, and studied for two years at the National Technical University of Athens before transferring to Caltech, where he earned a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering. He then went on to earn his doctorate and master’s degrees in electrical engineering and computer science from MIT. 


 
 
 
 
 More about the school » 
   Bren ICS Mission  
  About the Bren gift  
  Dean's welcome  
  Meet the Dean  
  Bren School Intranet  

  Donald Bren Hall  
  Undergraduate education  
  Graduate studies  
  Find faculty and staff  
  Contact us  
  Safety procedures  
  Visit the Bren School  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 