 Events and Metaevents – Ramesh Jain 
	
	 
				 
		 
								 
				   							
		 Search 
		
					  
								 
									Ramesh Jain								 
							 
														 Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher 
																
				 
	 	
		
	    About Ramesh 
   News  
	  Events  
  
  Towards Weaving the Visual Web  
  Research 
   Books  
	  Patents  
	  Presentations  
	  Projects  
	  Research Papers 
	   Computer Vision  
		  Experiential Computing  
		  Multimedia Information Management  
	  
  
  Teaching 
   Current Courses  
	  Past Courses  
  
  Entrepreneurship 
   Current Companies  
	  Past Companies  
  
  Partners 
   Current Students  
	  Past Students  
	  Collaborators  
  
  Professional/Social 
   Services  
	  Recognitions  
	  Interviews  
  
  Personal 
   Affiliations  
	  Education  
	  Favorite Books  
	  Favorite Quotes  
  
  Digital India: A potentially transformative opportunity  
  Navigation    
					 

 
	

 
    	 
    				Events and Metaevents    			 
  			 
    			 If you look at the postings on Twitter or status updates on Facebook, one very soon realizes that if there is any important event then there are many ‘metaevents’ around it.  Suppose that there is an event: a concert.  Many people like to post updates expressing their opinions about the concert.  Also, many posts will be related to their experience of attending the concerts, many photos or videos from the concert etc.  This is a common situation.  If one analyzes these sites — so called real time updates are really centered around a major real physical event.  There may be an update related to the main event and then there are all these updates related that main event.  All these updates related to the main event may be considered metaevents. 
 Another example:  there is an important report in New York Times.  Publishing of that report may be considered an event.  Now there will be many tweets giving link to that report, many blogs about that report.  All these are metaevents.  These are events about an event.  One should clearly distinguish between an event and metaevents.  Like metadata, metaevents may play very important role in understanding events and their effects and implications. 
  			 
  			 	        			
    			 
    				 By  Ramesh   |
    				  July 30, 2009   |
    				             		  Experiential Computing ,  Technical Thoughts   |
             	 
    				             		  3 Comments   |
             	 		          				
    			 
    		 

  						    ←  Experiential Communication — in Singapore  
				  Living in the Past — dangerous for Present and Future  →   
			  

	
			 
			3 thoughts on “ Events and Metaevents ”		 

		  
		   Raymond Foulkes    August 1, 2009 at 5:06 pm 			 This is a facinating thought. 
It reminds me of aspects of chaos theory. 
The main event would be an ‘attractor’ and the meta events would be the unpredictable actions of the individuals which would form a predictable or emergent pattern of behaviour. 
 There are so many examples in nature, from the behaviour of a crowd of people to a flock of birds. 
 It always amazes me how one ‘event’ can have such ramifying consequences.  Compare a scenario of the concert being cancelled as compared with it being on.  – Like the Michael Jackson concerts.  How many people will now be in different places, doing different things, meeting different people, having different accidents, each event stimulating a new cascade of events of their own – ultimately changing lives, even creating or destroying lives.   
 A fascinating thought. 
							 
							 
		 
	 
		  Ramesh   Post author   August 1, 2009 at 5:23 pm 			 Very well said.  It fascinates me also how events are related to each other and, as you pointed out, how an event results in spanning a web of events that in turn may result numerous webs and so on.  Some of these will be short lived and some will have a long-term consequences. 
 Surprisingly, this has not been yet recognized by the computing community.  It is well recognized in history and some other areas — Freakonomics is all about this phenomena. 
							 
							 
		 
	 
		   SEO    August 7, 2009 at 1:16 am 			 An inevitable scenario is when a metaevent  becomes an event in its own right, with its own metaevents.   
 It would be an interesting exercise to map out all the event of your day,  charting their meta events (the ones you can measure), and creating a list of wich metaevents hit a dead end, with no resulting metaevents. 
							 
							 
		 
		  
		 Leave a Reply   Cancel reply   			
				  Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  *    Comment     Name  *    
  Email  *    
  Website   
  			
			 
	
 
		  


 
	


  


	    

	   
	   	
	   
	    
				 
			 
				    Copyright © 2017   Ramesh Jain   |  Theme by:   Theme Horse   |  Powered by:   WordPress    
			   Back to Top  		 

	 

</body> 