 Gene Tsudik's Info Page<body>
 
  
  Gene Tsudik     
Chancellor's Professor of Computer Science
 
formerly known as   "Lois and Peter Griffin Professor" and "The Simpson Family Professor"  
Quagmire Computer Science Department  
Pewterschmidt School of Information
and Computer Sciences  
University of Caliphoneya, Irvine     

     An urgent message to all humorless barbarians inhabiting this long-suffering planet:  
  
    As a free human being, I reserve the right to disrespect, mock, parody, laugh at,
and disbelieve  any 
  and all of your deities, saints, prophets, idols and presidential candidates. 
        A moralistic sermon for PhD students:  
  
      Ballad of Little White Rabbit   
        Crypto Poetry for the masses:   
  
      Zero Knowledge Made Easy, and Diffie-Hellman for Morons  
        Flowchart for prospective PhD students:   
  
   Are you a prospective graduate student looking for an advisor?   
      If so, here is an easy and painless way to see if you and I can work together. NOTE: New and updated version! 
  Just  click here (round 1) , 
 then here (round 2) , 
 and finally here (round 3) ! 
        Favorite Venues:  
  
    ACM Cloud Computing Security Workshop 
        (CCSW)   (Steering Committee Chair, 2015-2017)
     ACM Transactions on Information and System Security 
        (TISSEC)   (Editor-in-Chief, 2009-2015)
     ACM Conference on Wireless Network Security 
        (WiSEC)   (Steering Committee Chair, 2011-2015)
     ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security 
        (CCS)   (Steering Committee Member, 2007-2011)
       Venues and Publishers to avoid:  
  
      IARIA   
       ICST   
       HINDAWI  
       MDPI  
       EAI  
       CREATE-NET  
       WSEAS  
       Research Interests:  
  
    Privacy
     Computer &amp; Network Security
     Applied Cryptography
       Pointers:  
   
   UCI Networked Systems (NetSys) Graduate Program  
    Secure Computing and Networking Center (SCONCE)  
     Security and Privacy Research Outfit (SPROUT)  
     Contact    
     Publications  
     Google Scholar Publications  
     DBLP Publications  
    Patents  
    Current and Former Students  
    Assorted Facts  
    Favorite Expressions  
    Invented Words  
      Brief Bio:  
  
Gene Tsudik is a "Lois and Peter Griffin" Professor of Computer Science
at the University of California, Irvine (UCI).  He obtained his PhD in Computer
Science from USC in 1991. Before coming to UCI in 2000, he was at
IBM Zurich Research Laboratory  (1991-1996) and USC/ISI (1996-2000).
Over the years, his research interests included many topics in security and
applied cryptography.  Gene Tsudik is a Fulbright Scholar,  Fulbright Specialist (twice),
a fellow of ACM, a fellow of IEEE, a fellow of AAAS, and a member of Academia Europaea.
From 2009 to 2015 he served as Editor-in-Chief of ACM Transactions on
Information and Systems Security (TISSEC). He suffers from a debilitating
and incurable academic condition known as "Research ADHD".

           

  
</body> 