 Euler's Formula<body>
     
  Euler's Formula,
Proof 15: Binary Homology
 

Portions of the following proof are described by
 Lakatos  (who credits it to Poincaré)
however Lakatos omits any detailed justification for the properties 
of the map b defined below, instead treating them as axioms
(so the theorem he ends up proving is that
that Euler's formula is true of any polyhedron satisfying these axioms,
but he doesn't prove that this is true of convex polyhedra).
 
Like the  shelling  proof,
this proof
interprets a polyhedron or polytope as a complex of polyhedral
faces of varying dimensions, with  f i   denoting the number
of faces of dimension i.  And like that proof,
we add two "extra" cells, one for the whole polytope
and one for the "empty face", so  f  -1 = f d  =1.
  
We interpret the subsets of faces of dimension  i 
as a vector space over the two-element field GF(2),
with vector addition being performed by symmetric difference
of subsets (also known as exclusive or).
In this way we get  d +1 vector spaces V  i  ,
with dimensions equal to  f i  .
The sets of faces of the polytope can be interpreted as forming
bases for these vector spaces.
  
These spaces also come equipped with a linear mapping b taking
each space V  i   to the next lower dimensional space,
defined on each face to be the set of its facets.
When v is a sum of faces, b(v) is the sum of the corresponding
sets of facets.
(The empty face has no facets, and a vertex is defined
to have the empty face as its only facet.)
This mapping has two very important properties:
   Boundaries have no boundaries.  In other words,
for any vector v, b(b(v))=0.
If v is a basis vector, corresponding to a single face of the polytope,
this is true because any  ridge  (face two dimensions lower than  v )
forms the boundary between two facets of  v , and is therefore
cancelled out in the calculation of b(b(v)).
In the special case of the empty face, b(v)=0 already and for any linear
map b(0)=0.  In the special case of a vertex, b(v) is the empty face
and again b(b(v))=0.
The result follows as well for vectors other than the bases
by linearity.
 
   Any vector without a boundary is itself a boundary.
In other words, for any vector v, if b(v)=0, then v=b(w) for some w.
If v=0 then we can choose w=0 as well; for nonzero v
we prove this by analyzing the vectors of each dimension separately.
If v is in V -1 , it must be the empty face itself
and is the boundary of some vertex.
If v is in V 0 , it must consist of an even number of vertices
for b(v) to be zero.  These vertices can be paired up
and connected by paths; then w can be taken to be the vector sum of
these paths.
If v is in V 1 , it forms a set of edges meeting an even number of
times at each vertex; these edges can be grouped into Jordan curves
and w can be taken to be the vector sum of regions bounded by these curves.
If v is in V 2 , it must be the whole set of facets of the polyhedron,
since we can find a path on the polyhedron boundary from any facet to
any other facet (avoiding vertices), and none of the edges
crossed by this path can be in b(v).
So we can take w to be the single cell corresponding to the whole polyhedron.
Finally, if v is a nonzero vector in V 3 , b(v) cannot be zero.
   
With these preliminaries out of the way we are ready to
begin the proof that
Sum(-1  i   f i  )=0.
  
Let B  i   denote the subspace of V  i   consisting
of those vectors for which b(v)=0.
Then the map b takes V  i   to B  i -1 .
Whenever we have a linear map of vector spaces,
we can use it to decompose the original space into
its  nullspace  (the set of vectors mapped to zero,
here B  i  ) and its orthogonal complement,
which is mapped one-to-one onto the image of the map.
This tells us that
dim(V  i  )=dim(B  i  )+dim(B  i -1 ).
Plugging this expansion into the sum we are trying to evaluate
gives
 
Sum(-1  i   f i  )

= Sum(-1  i   (dim(B  i  ) +
dim(B  i -1 )))
 
which equals zero, because each term B  i  
appears twice with opposite signs.
 
Cancelling the two extra parameters  f  -1  and
 f  3  from
the sum gives the usual Euler formula.
I suspect there is a more direct, dimensionless way of proving
that boundaryless vectors are themselves boundaries, but I don't see it
and Lakatos doesn't describe it.
 
 Homology theory , one of the foundation stones of
algebraic topology, is devoted to defining similar vector spaces and
understanding
the extent to which the key equation
dim(V  i  )=dim(B  i  )+dim(B  i -1 )
fails to be true in other topological spaces.
     
 Proofs of Euler's Formula . 
From the  Geometry Junkyard ,
computational
and recreational geometry pointers.  David Eppstein ,
 Theory Group ,
 ICS ,
 UC Irvine .  
 Semi-automatically
 filtered 
from a common source file.
Last update: .  </body> 