 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  August 3,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         New dean named for ICS
</strong>
              Entrepreneur Marios Papaefthymiou, current chair of computer science &amp; engineering at the University of Michigan, will begin his term as dean Jan. 1, 2017.    
                  
  
Marios Papaefthymiou – an expert in the design of energy-efficient, high-performance computers – has been appointed the next dean of the Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. His term will begin Jan. 1, 2017.

  
“Given the central role played by information and computer sciences in the transformation of research across many vital fields, it was very important for the campus to recruit a strong, visionary leader for the Donald Bren School,” said UCI Chancellor Howard Gillman. “Marios Papaefthymiou is such a leader. We are excited about the school’s future and welcome Marios to the UCI community.”

  
Papaefthymiou is currently chair of computer science and engineering at the University of Michigan, a position he has held since 2011. He served as director of the campus’s Advanced Computer Architecture Laboratory from 2000 to 2011.

  
In addition to his academic achievements, Papaefthymiou co-founded Cyclos Semiconductor, a developer of energy-efficient resonant clocking technologies that allow computers to function at high levels with drastically reduced power consumption.

  
He earned a doctorate in computer science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a B.S. in electrical engineering at the California Institute of Technology.

  
“I am thrilled for the opportunity to serve as dean of UCI’s School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences,” Papaefthymiou said. “I look forward to working with my future fellow faculty members, staff and students in the school and across the campus to pursue new frontiers in information and computer science research and education.”

  
When it was founded in 1968, UCI’s School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences was one of the earliest such entities in the country and the first in the University of California system. The founders placed an emphasis on using computers in teaching and instruction, which had a significant impact across the campus.

  
The school has built a strong reputation in fields such as informatics, human-computer interaction, machine learning, big data and embedded systems. Enrollment in undergraduate majors climbed from 802 students in the fall of 2009 to 2,366 in the fall of 2015 and is expected to top 2,700 this year. The number of underrepresented undergraduates in ICS programs grew 280 percent between 2010 and 2015.

  
In 2004, the school was renamed for philanthropist and Irvine Company chairman Donald Bren after his donation of $20 million, among the largest single gifts UCI has ever received.

  
“The challenge to the leader in this position will be to further enhance and build upon one of the most well-established and prominent schools of information and computer science in the country,” said Enrique Lavernia, UCI provost and executive vice chancellor. “I believe Professor Papaefthymiou is extremely well-suited to the role.”

  
“I thank the search committee, led by professor of computer science Padhraic Smyth, for its great work in evaluating candidates and making this selection,” he added. “I would also like to express my deep gratitude to Hal Stern for his exceptional leadership over his extended term as dean of the Bren School.”

  
Stern will remain dean through the end of 2016.




   New dean named for ICS
    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Eppstein awarded two NSF grants for algorithm research

              
                Next &gt; 
                 Jain publishes book with former student about “Situation Recognition Using EventShop”


             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 