 Boy 2.0 » EVOKE Lab and Studio 


  



 

		
		 
			 EVOKE Lab and Studio 
		 


		   Home  
  About  
  News  
  Events  
  Projects  
  People  
  Blog  
  Contact  
   
 

					
		 
			 Portfolio 
			 Boy 2.0 
		 

		 
			 
			

				
				          View Images     
					 

						 What if we could harness the best parts of boys’ play while rechanneling impulses of aggression and hyper-competition? What if we, as a culture, nurtured boys to play differently? What if we asked that toys for boys guide social development the way we have begun to expect from toys designed for girls? Boy 2.0 is line of toys designed to appeal to boys that encourage empathy, collaboration and conflict-netralization. One example is WeeSplat–a reinterpretation of the toy gun in the form of a snake that coils around the boy’s arm with a sticky, tentacle-esque tongue that can be fired out to capture game tokens. Playing collaboratively with a friend enables new features like lights and sounds that aren’t available when playing solo. By capitalizing on the kinds of play in which boys are already engaging, BOY 2.0 is a product line that will facilitate social change and be a satisfying product. 
   Boy 2.0 Project Team:</strong>  
  Göde Both, University of Paderborn 
 Marisa Cohn, University of California-Irvine 
 Madeline Elish, Columbia University 
 Kavita Kulkarni, NYU 
 Silvia Lindtner, University of California-Irvine 
 Sumitra Nair, Virginia Tech 
   Boy 2.0′s design challenge: Dark Values and Design for Hesitation  
 When we design with values in mind, there is a natural tendency to engage the pro-social or aspirational values on the positive end of a spectrum. There are entirely different sets of values – the negative, anti-social, destructive, abusive, abandoning, neglecting, disenfranchising – that are often invoked in cautionary or failure narratives of designed technologies and systems. But, can we design for these dark values with intention, even if only to learn and recognize the processes by which they come into the world? How would you go about designing a technology that embodies the values of control, subtle shifts to rob users of their agency, or subverts human and social values to convince people to behave against their own interests? Moving back toward the theme of responsive and responsible design, how can we design technologies to incorporate moments for hesitation, and opportunities to cultivate a sociotechnical reflexive practice? Each act of design involves acts of inclusion and exclusion. How do we make those explicit in the process of design? Your challenge is to design a piece of technology or software that embodies “Dark Values” or creates a space for hesitation in practice or process. 

					 

				 
				
								 
				 
					 Leave a Reply 
				 
				  Cancel reply  
									
																										 Name* 
					 Email* 
					 Website 
					 Comment*  
							 
						    					
							 
											
				 

				

						 

			    « Previous </strong> 
			    Next » </strong> 
			 

		  
	 

	 

		
		 
		  Portfolio Details 
		  

		   Posted By:</strong> Cory Knobel 
			  Added:</strong> March 28, 2014 

			
				  More Info</strong>					 Modern toys for mannered boys. Traditional toys with a values-based twist.  

				 
				
					  

 
 

		 EVOKE Lab &amp; Studio @ University of California-Irvine © 2017   ^ Top  

	 
</body> 