 Third Homework<body>
  
 
          
 
 We're all back together this week; everyone
will do the same thing.  This assignment is due on Friday, January 24.   
 
  (a)  In Chapter 3 of the Goodrich and
Tamassia book, do these problems:   
  
 R-3.8.  Unless you have already completed
this by hand, use a spreadsheet to help with the calculations; Excel is
available on the machines in the lab.  Every computer scientist should have
some spreadsheet experience, so take this opportunity.  
   
 C-3.1.  A sentence or two is all that's
required here; numerical examples or pictures are also welcome.  
   
 P-3.1.  Treat the linear-log scale as extra
credit.  Also for some extra credit, plot your results as a chart in Excel
(which does allow log scales if you poke around the various options).  
  
  (b)   Look at Alex Thornton's Project
#1 from ICS 22, available on the web at    http://www.ics.uci.edu/~thornton/ics22/LabManual/Money/   
.   
 
  (b.1)   Code the problem as specified.
 The coding here should be pretty easy, but pay particular attention to
the discussion about testing and to designing and carrying out a thorough
test plan.  
 
  (b.2)   Change the program to handle
dollars and cents rather than just integer dollars.  As the write-up points
out, this is tricky because floating-point numbers (floats and doubles in
Java) aren't exact (think of 1/3 or 2/7) and that inexactness can be
compounded in repeated calculations.    
 
 The right way to handle this is to treat each
balance as an integer number of cents.  You then have two problems:  How
to print the quantities with a decimal point and two digits to the right,
and how to let the user specify dollar-and-cents quantities.  
 
 For the output, you'll want to write a
method called   toCurrencyString  
that takes an integer and returns a string including a decimal point, so
that   toCurrencyString(12345)  
would return   "123.45"  .
 The algorithm for this isn't hard if you use both division and the
mod (remainder) operator (  %  --so
that   12345 % 100  
is   45  )
to extract the dollars, dimes and cents.  
 
 For the input, you may do it the easy but
clumsy way:  Prompt the user separately for the dollars and for the cents,
combining them in your program.  For a little extra credit, parse the input
string containing a decimal point.  
 
 Redraft (and re-apply) your test plan to include
tests of dollars-and-cents amounts (thinking carefully about what those
amounts can look like).  
 
  (b.3)   For some extra credit, try one
or more of these:  
  
 Allow each person to have a collection of
accounts (creating an AccountCollection class that you could implement as
an array, or even as a linked list).  You'd probably want to give each
account a number and think about what interface changes you'd need.  
   
 Have (at least) two subclasses of accounts,
Checking and Savings; each class could have a different associated interest
rate (that applies to every account of that class, not one for each instance),
and allow each person's account collection to include any combination
of accounts.  (A clever thing to do would be to use a static field in the
Account class so that every new account, of whatever type, gets a unique
account number.)  
   
 The "Additional Challenges" listed
in Alex Thornton's write-up.  
   
  What to turn in:     
 
 For part  (a) , paste all your answers
into a single Word document and submit it via Checkmate.  (If you'd
prefer another format besides Word, let us know and we'll see about
alternate arrangements.  Likewise, if you already completed this part before
reading about the Excel requirement, you may turn in a paper version in
class on Tuesday.)  
 
 For part  (b) , turn in via Checkmate
a Word document containing your test plan and a Java file for each class
from part  (b.2) .  As indicated by Checkmate, turn in the main, required
part separately from any enhanced, extra credit version from  (b.3) .
  
  
 Written by David G. Kay, Winter 2003 to build
on "Money (That's What I Want)," an ICS 22 lab by Alex Thornton.  
  
 
  
  
  David G. Kay ,
 406B Computer Science
   University of California, Irvine 
   Irvine, CA  92697-3425  
 --     (949) 824-5072   
 --  Fax    (949) 824-4056   
 --  Email   
     kay@uci.edu 
    

 
 Saturday, January 18, 2003 -- 11:01 AM  
</body> 