 
 


 
    
    
     
     
     
     
    <title>Department of Informatics / UC Irvine 
     
       
       
     
     
     
     
     
   
   
     
       
         
             
           
    
             

      
               

        
                 
    
 
                
      
 
              
    
 
           
           
             
         
         
             
           
             
               
                  Info  
               
             
           
          


           
             
               
                  Nicolas Mangano  
               
             
           
         
         
             
             
           
             
               
				 In September of 2013, I successfully defended my doctoral dissertation,   Calico: An early-phase software design tool  , which was awarded the  ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award . While at UC Irvine, I was a member of the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  and a member of the  Institute for Software Research , both at the  University of California, Irvine . In 2007 I graduated from UCI with a B.S. in Information and Computer Science and a B.A. in Psychology.  
                   
                 My advisor was Professor  André van der Hoek , whose research focuses on understanding and advancing the role of design, coordination, and education in software.   
                   
                 My research led me to investigating the role of sketching in design. Practically designers work out their ideas in a free form medium where they can express their ideas rapidly and with little effort. Sketching has been the mode of choice for designers to express their ideas. I'm interested in what we can do to create an environment that supports such designers.  
                   
				 I now work at Molimur as part of the founding team, which is a startup inspired by my research work at UC Irvine.  
                   
               
                 
             
           
          


           
             
               
                 Department of Informatics / UC Irvine 
               
             
           
          


           
             
               
             
           
             
         
         
             
         
       
     
  </body>
 


