 
	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
     
		News     
	         
		  Affinity diagramming  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on November 18, 2012 at 2:53 pm 				 
					
		 We had a lot of fun grouping the results of Evelina’s and Thomas’ interviews. Nick Mangano suggested an indexation. Nick Lopez came up with many labels (topics?) to one note. Michele complained about so much meta-data. Lee suggested a group for the “unrelated”. Since the sticky notes moved all over the walls, the outcome looks promising. More […] 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Sergio!  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on October 20, 2012 at 7:10 am 				 
					
		 Our group continues to grow! We are very excited to welcome Sergio Villaverde Herrera to the laboratory. He is joining us for the year as an education abroad student from the University of Granada, Spain, and is exploring building a scalable server side to Calico (scalable to many many users). 
     
    
         
		  Groupwork on tablets  
		 
					Posted by  adrianoc  on October 18, 2012 at 9:33 pm 				 
					
		 Michele – looking amused at the funny cat pictures we found while restoring some images from the tablets (sometimes, servers crash and important work is almost lost…). 
     
    
         
		  SDCL has moved  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on September 11, 2012 at 5:43 pm 				 
					
		 The SDCL has moved! Our new space is in ICS1, room 414 (see our directions page). Come visit us in our new space for a tour (and demos, as always!). 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Michele!  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on September 11, 2012 at 2:54 pm 				 
					
		 We are very excited to welcome Michele Bonazza to the laboratory. He is joining us for four months as a visitor from the University of Padova, Italy, and will be developing an Android version of Calico (!) 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Christian!  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on September 11, 2012 at 2:53 pm 				 
					
		 We are very excited to welcome Christian Adriano to the laboratory. He is joining us as a new Ph.D. student from Sao Paolo, Brazil. 
     
    
         
		  ISR Research Forum  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on May 18, 2012 at 3:32 pm 				 
					
		 The SDCL was an active participant in the ISR Research Forum, with numerous demos given during the open house and lots of good connections being made. All in all a fun day, especially with the great feedback we received on our projects. 
     
    
         
		  Brazilian collaborators visit  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on April 16, 2012 at 8:40 pm 				 
					
		 SDCL friends Claudia Werner, Leo Murta, and Marcelo Schots visit us from UFRJ in Rio and UFF in Niteroi this week, exchanging research ideas, exploring collaborations, and working on a joint paper. 
     
    
         
		  Welcome Alfredo Motta  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on April 2, 2012 at 8:48 pm 				 
					
		 We welcome Alfredo Motta to our lab; Alfredo is visiting us for four months from Politecnico di Milano, and is exploring how designers can be assisted with feedback about their designs in progress. 
     
    
         
		  Papers accepted  
		 
					Posted by  andre  on March 31, 2012 at 10:00 pm 				 
					
		 Congrats to Lee Martie for getting a paper accepted in the MSR 2012 Challenge track, and Nick Mangano for getting a paper accepted in JASE [link]. Well done! 
     
    
    
		         
              « Previous Page  
              Next Page »  
              
         
                    
     
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 