 
	Welcome Danilo and William – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	 
			 
			 Jun  13  
			 
                  Welcome Danilo and William   
                                  
             
			
			 
				 We have two new members in SDCL for the summer: 
 Danilo is B.Sc. Student majoring in Computer Engineering at the Federal University of Sao Carlos, Brazil. He is a former exchange student at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign during Fall 2013 and Spring 2014. He will work with Christian on how to apply crowd sourcing methods to detect bugs on Java source codes. 
 William is an award winning ( honorable mention in  IEEE gamesig) Game Designer majoring in Computer Game Science at UC Irvine. He is currently pursuing an interest in developing software and games for emerging technologies, such as the Google Glass, the Oculus Rift, and the Verve. He will work with Lee and Mengyao on the Google Glass project. 
 Welcome Danilo and William! 

				
			  Posted in    News     Comments Off  on Welcome Danilo and William    Posted by  Mengyao   
			 
		 

	

			
		 Comments are closed. 
	


	
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 