 In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Community  &gt;  News  


     
 In the News 

 
 

  July 8,  2016
</strong>
 
      
      
         Stern receives DeGroot Prize for “Bayesian Data Analysis”</strong>
          
                    
Professor of Statistics  Hal Stern</strong>—together with his coauthors Andrew Gelman, John B. Carlin, David B. Dunson, Aki Vehtari and Donald B. Rubin—has received the  DeGroot Prize  for his book,   Bayesian Data Analysis  .

  
The DeGroot Prize, awarded by the  International Society for Bayesian Analysis  (ISBA), recognizes influential texts concerned with fundamental issues of statistical inference, decision theory and statistical applications. Named for Morris H. "Morrie" DeGroot, the prize “recognizes the impact and importance of his work in Statistics and Decision Theory, and his marked influence on the evolution of the discipline over several decades through his personal scholarship, educational and professional leadership,” according to ISBA.

  
 Bayesian Data Analysis  is a leading textbook on Bayesian methods with its accessible introduction to the statistical theory. The book adopts a practical approach and offers many examples of real statistical analyses throughout. It has proven to be a useful text for undergraduates, graduate students and researchers alike.

  
The ISBA promotes the development and application of Bayesian analysis useful in the solution of theoretical and applied problems in science, industry and government. It also sponsors and organizes meetings of the Bayesian community and publishes the electronic journal   Bayesian Analysis  .



   Stern receives DeGroot Prize for “Bayesian Data Analysis”    
                &lt; Previous 
                 Dean Stern's co-led CSAFE cited in White House Impact Report
              
                Next &gt; 
                 Fowlkes awarded $377K NSF grant for geometric imaging research

             

 
 
 
  
 More news and events » 
   Press releases  
  Video highlights  
  Annual reports  
  Calendar of events  
  
 Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at  matt.miller@uci.edu .  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 