 CS 274A | Winter 2017 
  
   
 
 


 
    CS 274A: Probabilistic Learning: Theory and Algorithms, Winter 2017    

  General Information   
    Time:   Monday and Wednesday, 5:00 to 6:20pm  
   Location:   MSTB 120  
   Instructor:    
 Professor Padhraic Smyth   
   Reader:    Eric Nalisnick  
    
 Syllabus     
     Notes  : Links to notes, texts, and background
reading  
   Office Hours:  9:30 to 10:30 on Mondays, and 10 to 11 on Tuesdays, DBH 4216
    Questions?   please use the 
 Piazza class Website  for class-related questions and discussion. If
you have a question post it to Piazza rather than sending an email to the instructor. 
  
  Homeworks 
     Homework 1     |  PDF  |  LaTeX |
Hardcopy due in class on Wednesday January 18th 
 
    Homework 2     |  PDF  |  LaTeX |
Hardcopy due to Eric's office by 5pm on Friday January 27th (can be dropped off between 3pm and 5pm that day).
  
    Homework 3     |  PDF  |  LaTeX |
Hardcopy due to Eric's office by 5pm on Friday February 3rd (can be dropped off between 3pm and 5pm that day).
  
    Homework 4    |  PDF  |  LaTeX |
Hardcopy due in class, Code to be uploaded to EEE dropbox by start of class, on Wednesday Feb 22nd
  
    Homework 5    
 
    Homework 6    
 
  
   Prerequisites for taking this class  
Knowledge of basic concepts in probability, multivariate calculus, and linear algebra are required for this course. 
Please note that a good understanding of probability in particular is important for this class.  
  

 
   Course Goals  
Students will develop a comprehensive understanding of probabilistic approaches to learning from data. 
Probabilistic learning is a key component in many areas within modern computer science, 
including artificial intelligence, data mining, speech recognition, computer vision, bioinformatics, and so forth. 
The course will provide a tutorial introduction to the basic principles of probabilistic modeling and then 
demonstrate the application of these principles to the analysis, development, and practical 
use of machine learning algorithms.  Topics covered will include probabilistic modeling, 
defining likelihoods, parameter estimation using likelihood and Bayesian techniques, 
probabilistic approaches to classification, clustering, and regression, and related topics 
such as model selection and bias/variance tradeoffs.


 
   Grading Policy  
Final grades will be based on a combination of homework assignments and exams: 30% homeworks, 30% midterm, and 40% final. 
No credit for late homeworks - instead your lowest scoring homework will be dropped and not included in your score.  


 
   Academic Integrity  
Students are expected to be read and be familiar with the  Academic
Integrity Policy  for this class. 
Failure to adhere to this policy can result in a student receiving a failing grade in the class.  



  

 </body> 