 Seminar: Cyber-Puzzlers<body>

  Univ Studies 3: Cyber-Puzzlers -- Fall 2013  

    Class meetings 
       Lectures: Friday 11-11:50am in Donald Bren Hall 1431
       
        Note: there is no class on November 8, 2013, because
       of the instructor needing to attend the 2013 ACM GIS conference.
         Note: there is no class on November 29, 2013, because of Thanksgiving 
       
       Instructor 
       Professor Michael Goodrich --  goodrich (at) uci.edu     
        Class Requirements  
       no homeworks or examinations
         grades are given based on class participation,
              i.e. , attendence and discussion
       
        Course Goals  
     
This seminar explores problem solving and critical thinking through
the study of puzzlers and brain teasers, focusing on problems related
to computer science, which are typically used as interview questions
for such companies as Google and Microsoft.
 
Problem solutions need only high school mathematics and logic.
      
       Sample problems 
       It is said that potatoes are 99% water and 1% potato.
So, say you take a bunch of potatoes, like 100 pounds of potatoes, and
you set them out on your back porch to dry out.  As they begin to dry out,
the water starts to evaporate.  And after a while enough water has evaporated
so that the potatoes are now 98% water.
If you were to weigh those potatoes at that moment when they are 98%
water, how much would they weigh?
         Three different numbers are chosen at random, and one is written
on each of three slips of paper. The slips are then placed face down on
the table. The objective is to choose the slip upon which is written the
largest number.  Here are the rules: You can turn over any slip of paper
and look at the amount written on it. If for any reason you think this
is the largest, you're done; you keep it. Otherwise you discard it and
turn over a second slip. Again, if you think this is the one with the
biggest number, you keep that one and the game is over. If you don't,
you discard that one too, in which case you're stuck with the third one.
 
The chance of getting the highest number is one in three.
Or is it? Is there a strategy by which you can improve the odds?
         How can you identify the one heavy coin out of fifty in just
four weighings using a balance scale?
         In how many ways can you change one dollar
(allowing pennies, nickels, dimes, quarters, half dollars)?
         At one point, a remote island's population of chameleons was
divided as follows: 13 red chameleons, 15 green chameleons, 17 blue chameleons.
Each time two different colored chameleons would meet, they would change
their color to the third color.  Is it ever possible for all chameleons
to become the same color?  Why or why not?
         

   
Michael Goodrich    
Computer Science Department 
University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3435
 
 goodrich at ics.uci.edu  </body> 