 Alireza Sadeghi<body>
	 
		 
		 

			   Main Page  
				  Academics  
				  Publications  
				  Professional  
				  
			  Download CV 

			  
			 
				 
					 

						 
							 
								  
							 
                                
								 Alireza Sadeghi 
								 Ph.D. Candidate 
								   

								 About 
								 
									I am a software engineering Ph.D. Candidate at  Informatics Departments  of  Donald Bren School of Information &amp; Computer Sciences , University of California, Irvine.
									As a member of  SEAL  Lab, I'm working under supervision of  Dr.Sam Malek .   I received the B.Sc. degree in computer (software) engineering
									and M.Sc. degree in information technology from  Sharif University of Technology  in 2008
									and 2010.
								 
								 My research interests focus on software engineering, specifically, applying program analysis techniques in the domain of mobile
									applications, particularly for the security assessment. 
								  Email 
								 
									  

								 Office 
								 Donald Bren Hall (DBH), Room 5209 
								
								 
								    
								   
								   
								 
								
								  
							 
							  
						 

						 
							 Education 

							   Ph.D. in Software Engineering   University of California, Irvine (2015-now)
									  Supervisor:  Dr. Sam Malek  
										 Research Area: Security Analysis of Android Application 

									  

								  M.Sc. in Information Technology  (Software Engineering)  Sharif University of Technology (2008-2010)
									  Supervisor:  Dr.Seyed-Hassan Mirian-Hosseinabadi  
										 Thesis: An Improvement on Test Driven Development. 
									  

								  B.Sc. in Computer Engineering  (Software Engineering)  Sharif University of Technology (2003-2008)
									  Supervisor:  Seyed-Ebrahim Abtahi  

										 Thesis: Analysis, Design and Implementation of a Customer Loyalty Management Support System. 

									  
							   Research Project 
							  Security analysis of Android apps (  COVERT   &amp; Separ
									projects)
								 
								 Safe updates on self-adapting systems (  Savasana  
									project)
								 
							   Research Interests 
							  Software Engineering:
									  Static and Dynamic Program Analysis 
										 Mobile Software Systems 
										 Mining Software Repositories 
									  
							   Teaching Experiences 
							  Teaching Assistant:  Advanced topics in software engineering  (Graduate Course)  Sharif University of Technology (2011)
								 
								 Teaching Assistant:  Software Testing  (Graduate Course)  Sharif University of Technology (2009)  Shahid
									Beheshti University (2009)  Islamic Azad University, Science and Research (2009)
								 
							   Services 
                             Reviews 
							  IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics &amp; Security (IFS) 
								 Symposium on Software Engineering for Adaptive and Self-Managing Systems (SEMAS) - 2015  
								 Working IEEE/IFIP Conference on Software Architecture (WICSA)- 2014 
							   Honors/Awards 
							  NSF travel grant for attending ICSE'16 (2016) 
								 SIGSOFT CAPS travel grant for attending and presenting at ICSE'15 (2015) 
								 ETAPS scholarship for attending and presenting at FASE'14 (2014) 
								 Eligible to study Ph.D. program as a talent student (2010)   Sharif University of Technology  
								 Ranked  1 st   among approximately 3,000 participants (Information Technology major) (2008)   Iran’s Nationwide Graduate School Entrance Exam 
							   
						 
						 
							 Publications 

							 Refereed Journal Articles 							
							  Alireza Sadeghi, Hamid Bagheri, Joshua Garcia, Sam Malek   
							        A Taxonomy and Qualitative Comparison of Program Analysis Techniques for Security Assessment of Android Software 
							        IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering (TSE): accepted to appear. 
							     Hamid Bagheri, Joshua Garcia, Alireza Sadeghi, Sam Malek and Nenad Medvidovic 
							        Software Architectural Principles in Contemporary Mobile Software: from Conception to Practice 
							        Journal of Systems and Software (JSS) 119: 31-44:(2016) 								
							     Hamid Bagheri, Alireza Sadeghi, Joshua Garcia, Sam Malek   
							        COVERT: Compositional Analysis of Android Inter-Ap Permission Leakage 
							        IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering (TSE) 41(9): 866-886 (2015) 
							     Alireza Sadeghi, Seyed-Hassan Mirian-Hosseinabadi  							
							         Mbtdd: Model Based Test Driven Development 
							         International Journal of Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering (IJSEKE) 22(8): 1085-1102 (2012)
								 
							   Refereed Conference/Workshop Proceedings 
							  Bradley Schmerl, Jeff Gennari, Alireza Sadeghi, Hamid Bagheri, Sam Malek, Javier Camara, and David Garlan   
									Architecture Modeling and Analysis of Security in Android Systems. 
									European Conference on Software Architecture (ECSA), September 2016, Istanbul, Turkey   Reyhaneh Jabbarvand Behrouz, Alireza Sadeghi, Hamid Bagheri, Sam Malek   
									Energy-aware test-suite minimization of android apps. 
									International Symposum on Software Testing and Analysis (ISSTA), July 2016, Saarbrücken, Germany   Hamid Bagheri, Alireza Sadeghi, Reyhaneh Jabbarvand Behrouz, Sam Malek   
									Practical, formal synthesis and automatic enforcement of security policies for android. 
									International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN), June 2016, Toulouse, France   Nariman Mirzaei, Joshua Garcia, Hamid Bagheri, Alireza Sadeghi, Sam Malek   
									Reducing Combinatorics in GUI Testing of Android Applications. 
									International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), May 2016, Austin, TX   Alireza Sadeghi, Hamid Bagheri, Sam Malek   
									Analysis of Android Inter-App Security Vulnerabilities Using COVERT. 
									International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) - Tool Demonstrations, May 2015, Florence, Italy   Reyhaneh Jabbarvand Behrouz, Alireza Sadeghi, Joshua Garcia, Sam Malek, Paul Ammann   
									EcoDroid: An Approach for Energy-Based Ranking of Android Apps  
									International Workshop on Green and Sustainable Software (GREENS), May 2015, Florence, Italy
								 
								 Alireza Sadeghi, Naeem Esfahani, Sam Malek  
									Mining the Categorized Software Repositories to Improve the Analysis of Security Vulnerabilities.  
									Fundamental Approaches to Software Engineering (FASE), April 2014, Grenoble, France 
								 Sam Malek, Hamid Bagheri, Alireza Sadeghi 
									Automated detection and mitigation of inter-application security vulnerabilities in Android  
									International Workshop on Software Development Life-cycle for Mobile (DeMobile), November 2014, Hong Kong, China
								 
								 Seyed-Hassan Mirian-Hosseinabadi, Zahra Aghakasiri, Alireza Sadeghi, Parisa Delfani and Morteza Ghandehari  
									Emphasizing experiences in teaching software engineering courses  
									International Conference on Education Technology and Computer (ICETC), June 2010, Shanghai, China
								 
							  
						 
							 Professional 
							 Work Experiences 
							   Software Engineering Intern    Google Inc. , Mountain View, CA
									(Summer 2016) 
								  Graduate Research Assistant    University of California, Irvine , CA
									(September 2015- June 2016) 
								  Software Engineering Intern    Google Inc. , Mountain View, CA
									(Summer 2015) 
								  Graduate Research Assistant    George Mason University , Fairfax, VA
									(September 2012- June 2015) 
								  Software Development Manager     Raydana Co. , Tehran, Iran
									(January 2009-September 2012) 
								  Software Designer and Developer    Raydana Co. , Tehran, Iran
									(September 2005- January 2009) 
							   Distinguished Projects and Products 
							   CyberERP® : Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system (2005-2011)  A web-based native ERP developed in Iran. 
								  Sana Project : Electronic Supervision System of Supreme Audit Court (2011-2012)  In cooperation with  Tosan Co.  and  Magfa ITDC . 
							   IT Tools and Skills 
							  Programming/Scripting Languages
									  Java, Python, JavaScript, C*, php* 
									  
								 Modeling Languages
									  UML, BPML 
									  
								 Software Development Frameworks
									   JEE/Web Development  Hibernate, Struts, Spring (MVC, Security), JSP, JQuery, AJAX 
										  Oracle Fusion Middleware*  (SOA suite, BPEL Manager, Web Center, Identity Manager, Service Bus, Business Intelligent) 
										 Mobile App Development (Android*), GWT* 
									  
								 Database and Application Server
									  Database: Oracle, MySQL 
										 Application Server: Weblogic, Tomcat 
									  
								 Development Tools and Environments
									  Eclipse, JDeveloper*, IntelliJ* 
										 Build Tools (Ant, Maven) 
										 Collaborative development tools (Jira, Crucible*) 

									  
								 Project Management Tools
									  Primavera*, MS Project* 
									  
								 Computer Science/Research Tools
									  Static Program Analysis (Soot) 
										 Data Mining (Weka) 
									  
							  * Familiar with / less than 1 year professional experience.     Selected Open-Source Projects 
							   Ludo Online Game  , with Security  Assurance
										case  
							  

						  
					 
				 
			 
			  
			 Copyright © 2008-2015 Alireza Sadeghi | Last update October, 2016 
		 
	 
</body> 