 
	andre – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
 
   
     
     
         
           
			            	  SDCL  Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory 
                       
          
			          

         
        
                
         
			 
            	  
		
 	   	  		 Author Archive 
 	  
				 
				  Marian Petre visit  

				 
                	 March 31, 2012   Marian Petre from The Open University visited us for this week, working on a book to be published out of the SPSD 2010 workshop and generally giving us feedback on all of our projects. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Marian Petre visit    

			 

				 
				  Welcome Thomas LaToza  

				 
                	 March 7, 2012   We are very excited to welcome Thomas LaToza to the laboratory. He will be joining us this Fall from CMU, where he just completed his Ph.D. (congrats!). 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Welcome Thomas LaToza    

			 

				 
				  SDCL hosts SCALE  

				 
                	 March 2, 2012   Yesterday and today, the SDCL hosted the SCALE meeting for our collaborative grant with CMU and UNL. Fourteen students presented their work and received feedback from the group as a whole, with various new ideas and joint projects emerging. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on SDCL hosts SCALE    

			 

				 
				  Visiting Google  

				 
                	 October 22, 2011   We had a fun visit to Google, discussing possible directions for Calico with some SDCL’s former members who now work there. Thanks Ping, Chris, Eugen, and Chris! 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Visiting Google    

			 

				 
				  Another NSF grant  

				 
                	 August 25, 2011   We are delighted to announce that the NSF has awarded the SDCL a 2011 IIS grant in support of our work on distributed collaboration; the grant is entitled “Large-Scale Human-Centered Coordination Systems to Support Interdependent Tasks in Context ” and is joint work with Jim Herbsleb, Laura Dabbish, and Linda Argote at Carnegie Mellon University, […] 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Another NSF grant    

			 

				 
				  New tablets!  

				 
                	 August 22, 2011   Our purchase of 21 new ASUS EEE EP121 tablets has arrived! These tablets are great, and Nick already got to try them out when the Brea Olinda Global IT Academy students visited our department today. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on New tablets!    

			 

				 
				  NSF grant for Calico  

				 
                	 August 6, 2011   We are delighted to announce that the NSF has awarded the SDCL a 2011 CCF grant in support of our work on Calico; the grant is entitled “Software Design Sketching”. 
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on NSF grant for Calico    

			 

				 
				  Microsoft Faculty Summit  

				 
                	 July 18, 2011   André van der Hoek is attending the Microsoft Faculty Summit. 
				 

				   Posted in   Travel  |     Comments Off  on Microsoft Faculty Summit    

			 

				 
				  HCIC 2011  

				 
                	 June 19, 2011   Nick Mangano attended HCIC 2011 this past week, learning more about the HCI community and its research methods in an intimate setting. 
				 

				   Posted in   Travel  |     Comments Off  on HCIC 2011    

			 

				 
				  Graduates!  

				 
                	 June 12, 2011   Congratulations to Nilmax Moura (M.S.), Robert Simpson (B.S.), and Danielle Song (B.S.). We will miss their contributions and presence in our lab!         
				 

				   Posted in   News  |     Comments Off  on Graduates!    

			 

		        
		         
              « Previous Page  
              Next Page »  
              
         
                
	 
			  
         
              
			  		
		 
			                 
                     			  
		                  
                  
			   Collaborators 
	   Anita Sarma  
  Brandy Aven  
  Crista Lopes  
  David Redmiles  
  Jim Herbsleb  
  Laura Dabbish  
  Linda Argote  
  Marian Petre  
  Na Meng  
  Thomas LaToza  

	  
	
              
                                            	
			                
                
			 
         
         
 
                         
        	                 
                   Home  
                                        
                      Research 
   CrowdDesign  
	  Crowd Debugging  
	  CodeExchange  
	  PorchLight  
	  Past projects 
	   Calico  
		  Crowd Development  
	  
  
  Papers 
   Technical reports  
	  Dissertations  
	  Books  
  
  Opportunities  
  Study Materials and Data  
  People 
   Previous members  
  
  Sponsors  
  Contact 
   Directions  
  
                    
                                      
         
     
   
  
       
         
             
                  			 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the  Department of Informatics  in the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences  at the  University of California, Irvine . 
		 	
                  
             
                      			   
		 	
                  
             
                     			   
		 	
                  
            
          
            Copyright ©             
            SDCL   |    eDegree°  Theme by  Top Blog Formula  on  WordPress   |   
                             Log In 
                       
    
         
       

 



</body> 