 UC Irvine to offer video game major – Center for Computer Games &amp; Virtual Worlds 
 
	 
		 Skip to content 

		 
				 
					
											  Center for Computer Games &amp; Virtual Worlds  
											 Bren School of ICS | UC Irvine 
									 

							 

					 

 
	 UC Irvine to offer video game major 	 
		 
 
 
 
 
 
  Orange County Register  
 
 Published: March 23, 2010 12:00 a.m. 
 
 
 
  
 
 By IAN HAMILTON
 It’s official. Students will be able to major in video games at UC Irvine. 
  
 
 
 
  
  Videos  
 
  UCI, which is already outfitted with a Center for Computer Games and Virtual Worlds meant to expand research into those fields, will now let undergraduate students major in Computer Game Science after final approval was granted during a divisional Senate assembly meeting. 
    
  
  Here’s a description of the major, courtesy of UC Irvine: 
 “The Computer Game Science (CGS) major combines a solid foundation in computer science with a focus on designing, building, and understanding computer games and other forms of interactive media.  
 “The fundamentals of information and computer science, along with coursework in mathematics, statistics, physics, and film and media studies, provide students with the concepts and tools to study a wide scope of computer game technologies. CGS emphasizes design, teamwork, and the understanding of computer games and related technologies and media in a social and cultural context. 
 “The study of computer games is an emerging field that is driven by advancing computer hardware and software technology, the widespread popularity of video games as an entertainment medium, and by the interest of artists, economists, educators, scientists and many others, to use game technologies for communication, visualization, computation and learning.” 
 This fall, freshman students who have already been accepted to UCI will be able to change their major, said Andre van der Hoek, associate dean of student affairs, in an e-mail. Transfer students will be allowed to major in the program in 2012. 
 
	 

	    Author    venita     Posted on   April 15, 2010September 27, 2012    Categories   Uncategorized  			 Post navigation 
		    Previous   Previous post:   Navarro, Van der Hoek win Premier Award for SimSE      Next   Next post:   Going undercover as a Night Elf Priest    
	 


	 Blogroll 
	   ArtIsAllWeHave  
  Itofisher  
  Metaverse Ink Blog  
  Pomo2k  
  UCI VGDC  
  Virtual Politik  

	  Archives 		   November 2012  
	  October 2012  
	  September 2012  
	  May 2012  
	  April 2011  
	  February 2011  
	  January 2011  
	  August 2010  
	  April 2010  
	  November 2009  
	  September 2009  
	  July 2009  
		  

		 
								  Center for Computer Games &amp; Virtual Worlds  
				 Proudly powered by WordPress 
			 
		 
 

</body> 