 Kay Family Foundation Innovation Lab @ Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                      ABOUT  

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  About  &gt;    


     
 Kay Family Foundation Innovation Lab 

 
 

 Thanks to a generous gift from the Kay Family Foundation, the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences now features a mobile technology lab designed to foster student collaboration. 
 The Kay Family Foundation Innovation Lab features state-of-the-art equipment, including Apple TVs and a PolyVision smartboard. MacBook Airs and iPads also are available for checkout to students enrolled in a Bren School major who are in good academic standing. 
 The lab is located in ICS2, Room 110. 
 Lab Availability and Policies 
 Access to the Kay Family Foundation Innovation Lab will be granted on a quarterly basis to students in a Bren School of ICS major. Students must request access from the Bren School facilities via  keys.ics.uci.edu , specifying Neha Rawal as Supervisor. Access to the lab is 7am to 10pm daily. Access will expire at the end of each quarter. 
   Important Guidelines: </strong>  
   Students are not to open the door for unauthorized users, at the risk of losing room privileges for a full quarter.   Students are not to prop the door open, at the risk of losing room privileges permanently.  
 Food or drinks (including water) are not allowed in the lab, and anybody found with food/drink in the room will lose room privileges for a full quarter. 
  The lab will be monitored via periodic checks by ICS Student Council members who helped design the lab and develop these policies. The ICS Student Council has been tasked with supporting the Bren School in its enforcement of these rules. 
 Periodically, the lab may be reserved for a class or seminar.  Please check    if the room is available for use (or booked).  Check Schedule     
   
 MacBook Air &amp; iPad Checkout Policy 
 Students must be enrolled in a Bren School major and must be in good academic standing in order to check out a MacBook Air or an iPad. These computers may be checked out for one week at a time — one device per student — via online reservation only. 
  RESERVATIONS   You must reserve a computer in advance at:          http://support.ics.uci.edu/comp_checkout  
 PICKUP  When the laptop or tablet you’ve requested is available, you will be notified via email and granted two sessions to pick up the device from ICS 346 before your request is cancelled. Pickup days/times are as follows:
  Monday 1 to 2 p.m.    Friday 11 a.m. to noon  
 LATE CHARGE  If you return the MacBook Air or iPad past the due date, you will be charged a $10 fee for each day the computer is late, up to one week. If the computer is not returned by seven days past the due date, the value of the device will be added to your UCI student Zot Account in the Registrar’s Office. 
 DAMAGES  If the device sustains any damage while you have it checked out, you will be responsible for the cost of repair or replacement. 
  
 
 
 
 More about the school » 
   Bren ICS Mission  
  About the Bren gift  
  Dean's welcome  
  Meet the Dean  
  Bren School Intranet  

  Donald Bren Hall  
  Undergraduate education  
  Graduate studies  
  Find faculty and staff  
  Contact us  
  Safety procedures  
  Visit the Bren School  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 