 Course Library Installation in Eclipse/Python Instructions<body>

 
 Course Library Installation for Eclipse/Python Instructions
     
 
  
  
These instructions review how to install the course library folder
  ( courselib ) in Eclipse/Python
  (these instructions also appear at the bottom of
   
    Eclipse Download and Installation Instructions ).
Then they explain how to populate this the  courselib  folder with all the
  modules in the standard course library (and individual modules).
  
   Review: Courselib Folder Installation 
  Locate the workspace folder 
      (typically  C:\Users\ yourname \workspace )
      and put a new, empty folder named   courselib  into this workspace
      folder.
    This folder will contain course-specific Python module files that are
      useable in all Python projects in Eclipse.
 

   Inform Eclipse to use the  courselib  folder in all Python projects.
  Select  Window | Preferences .
    Disclose  PyDev  (if not already disclosed):
        click the  +  in front of  PyDev  or double-click 
         PyDev  (after the +)
      Click  Interpreter - Python .
     
       
       Click the  Libraries  tab (leftmost, above the bottom pane)
      Click the  New Folder  button (topmost, right of the bottom pane)
      Browse to the  courselib  folder (added above) in the
           Browse for Folder  pop-up window
         ( C:\Users\ yourname \workspace\courselib ).
      Click the  courselib  folder selected, and then click  OK 
      Click  Apply  (you will see some progress bars) 
    The   pop-up window should now appear as
      
       
    Notice a fifth entry (ending in  courselib ) appears at the bottom of
      the bottom pane named  System PYTHONPATH 
       Cick  OK 
   
   

  Populate Course Library with Python Modules 
  Locate the workspace folder for Eclipse
     (typically  C:\Users\ yourname \workspace ); double-click it to
     open it and then double-click the  courselib  folder inside it
     (whose installation was described above) to open it.
 

   Download the
        courselib.zip  
    file and move it into the  courselib  folder opened above.
 

   Unzip it.
    The  courselib  folder will look something like the following:
     the  .zip  file followed by  .py  files
     (although it may contain more  .py  files, and the sizes and
     dates on these files may be different).
     
       
    Later this folder will contain another folder named  __pycache__ 
  

   If we are currently running Eclipse, we must terminate it and restart it:
      otherwise Eclipse will not notice the change that we have made to the
       courselib  folder).
 

    Finally, we can individually add any other useful  .py  module files
       to the  courselib  folder (mostly we will be told when to do so),
       thus making their modules available to all our Python projects.
   
   

   </body> 